<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>The Political Doctrines of Sun Yat-sen: An Exposition of the San Min Chu I</title>
      <author><name reg="Linebarger, Paul Myron Anthony">Paul Myron Anthony Linebarger</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>April 2, 2012</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">39356</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="zh"></language>
      <language id="fr"></language>
      <language id="de"></language>
      <language id="la"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2012-03-02">April 2, 2012</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Adam Buchbinder, David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">The Political Doctrines of Sun Yat-sen</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">An Exposition of the <hi rend='italic'>Sun Min Chu I</hi></p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">Paul Myron Anthony Linebarger, Ph.D.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">The Department of Government, Harvard University</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Greenwood Press, Publishers</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Westport, Connecticut</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Copyright 1937, The Johns Hopkins Press</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">First Greenwood Reprinting 1973</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='v'/><anchor id='Pgv'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Foreword.</head>

<p>
The importance of introducing Western political thought
to the Far East has long been emphasized in the West.
The Chinese conception of a rational world order was
manifestly incompatible with the Western system of independent
sovereign states and the Chinese code of political
ethics was difficult to reconcile with the Western preference
for a reign of law. No argument has been necessary
to persuade Westerners that Chinese political philosophy
would be improved by the influence of Western political
science.
</p>

<p>
The superior qualifications of Sun Yat-sen for the interpretation
of Western political science to the Chinese have
also been widely recognized in the West, particularly in
the United States. Dr. Sun received a modern education
in medicine and surgery and presumably grasped the spirit
of Western science. He read widely, more widely perhaps
than any contemporary political leader of the first rank
except Woodrow Wilson, in the literature of Western
political science. He was thoroughly familiar with the
development of American political thought and full of
sympathy for American political ideals. His aspiration to
build a modern democratic republic amidst the ruins of
the medieval Manchu Empire, Americans at least can
readily understand.
</p>

<p>
What is only beginning to be understood, however, in
the West is, that it is equally important to interpret
Chinese political philosophy to the rest of the world.
Western political science has contributed a great deal to
the development of political power. But it has failed lamentably
to illuminate the ends for which such power
should be used. Political ethics is by no means superfluous
in lands where a government of law is supposed to be
established in lieu of a government of men. The limitation
<pb n='vi'/><anchor id='Pgvi'/>
of the authority of sovereign states in the interest of a
better world order is an enterprise to which at last, it may
be hoped not too late, Westerners are beginning to dedicate
themselves.
</p>

<p>
As an interpreter of Chinese political philosophy to the
West Dr. Sun has no peer. Better than any other Chinese
revolutionary leader he appreciated the durable values in
the classical political philosophy of the Far East. He understood
the necessity for preserving those values, while
introducing the Western political ideas deemed most
proper for adapting the Chinese political system to its
new place in the modern world. His system of political
thought, therefore, forms a blend of Far Eastern political
philosophy and Western political science. It suggests at
the same time both what is suitable in Western political
science for the use of the Far East and what is desirable
in Far Eastern political philosophy for the improvement
of the West.
</p>

<p>
Dr. Linebarger has analyzed Dr. Sun's political ideas,
and also his plans for the political rehabilitation of China,
with a view to the interests of Western students of politics.
For this task his training and experience have given him
exceptional competence. The result is a book, which not
only renders obsolete all previous volumes in Western
languages on modern Chinese political philosophy, but
also makes available for the political scientists and politicians
of the West the best political thought of the Far
East on the fundamental problems of Western politics.
</p>

<lg>
<l><hi rend='smallcaps'>Arthur N. Holcombe</hi></l>
<l><hi rend='italic'>Harvard University</hi></l>
</lg>

</div>

<pb n='vii'/><anchor id='Pgvii'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Preface.</head>

<p>
This book represents an exploration into a field of political
thought which is still more or less unknown. The
Chinese revolution has received much attention from
publicists and historians, and a vast number of works
dealing with almost every phase of Chinese life and events
appears every year in the West. The extraordinary difficulty
of the language, the obscurity&mdash;to Westerners&mdash;of
the Chinese cultural background, and the greater vividness
of events as compared with theories have led Western
scholars to devote their attention, for the most part, to
descriptions of Chinese politics rather than to venture into
the more difficult field of Chinese political thought, without
which, however, the political events are scarcely
intelligible.
</p>

<p>
The author has sought to examine one small part of
modern Chinese political thought, partly as a sample of
the whole body of thought, and partly because the selection,
although small, is an important one. Sun Yat-sen
is by far the most conspicuous figure in recent Chinese
history, and his doctrines, irrespective of the effectiveness
or permanence of the consequences of their propagation,
have a certain distinct position in history. The <hi rend='italic'>San Min
Chu I</hi>, his chief work, not only represents an important
phase in the revolution of Chinese social and political
thought, but solely and simply as doctrine, may be regarded
as a Chinese expression of tendencies of political
thought current in the Western world.
</p>

<p>
The personal motives, arising out of an early and
rather intimate family relationship with the Chinese nationalist
movement centering around the person of Sun
Yat-sen, that led the author to undertake this subject,
have their advantages and disadvantages. The chief disadvantage
lies in the fact that the thesis must of necessity
<pb n='viii'/><anchor id='Pgviii'/>
treat of many matters which are the objects of hot controversy,
and that the author, friendly to the movement as a
whole but neutral as between its factions, may seem at
times to deal unjustly or over-generously with certain persons
and groups. The younger widow of Sun Yat-sen
(née Soong Ching-ling) may regard the mention of her
husband and the Nanking government in the same breath
as an act of treachery. Devoted to the memory of her
husband, she has turned, nevertheless, to the Left, and
works on cordial terms with the Communists. She said:
<q>... the Nanking Government has crushed every open
liberal, democratic, or humanitarian movement in our
country. It has destroyed all trade unions, smashed every
strike of the workers for the right to existence, has thrown
hordes of criminal gangsters who are simultaneously Fascist
<q>Blue Shirts</q> against every labor, cultural, or national
revolutionary movement in the country.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>China Today</hi> (March, 1935), I, No. 6, p. 112. This is the leading
English-language journal of the Chinese Communists. Mme. Sun's letter
to the paper is characteristic of the attitude toward Nanking adopted
throughout the magazine.</note> The author,
from what he himself has seen of the National Government,
is positive that it is not merely dictatorial, ruthless,
cruel, treacherous, or historically unnecessary; nor would
he, contrarily, assert that the National Government lives
up to or surpasses the brilliant ideals of Sun Yat-sen. He
seeks to deal charitably with all factions, to follow a
middle course whenever he can, and in any case to state
fairly the positions of both sides.
</p>

<p>
The advantages may serve to offset the disadvantages.
In the first place, the author's acquaintance with the Nationalist
movement has given him something of a background
from which to present his exposition. This background
cannot, of course, be documented, but it may serve
to make the presentation more assured and more vivid.
In the second place, the author has had access to certain
<pb n='ix'/><anchor id='Pgix'/>
private manuscripts and papers, and has had the benefit
of his father's counsel on several points in this work.<note place='foot'>These manuscripts consist of the following chief items: Linebarger,
Paul Myron Wentworth, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations with Sun Yat-sen 1919-1922</hi>
(written in 1933-1935); the same, <hi rend='italic'>A Commentary on the San Min Chu I</hi>
(four volumes, 1932-1933); and Sun Yat-sen, <hi rend='italic'>How China Was Made a
Republic</hi> (Shanghai, 1919). These are all typescripts, with autograph
corrections by their respective authors. The manuscripts of Judge Linebarger
represent his attempts to replace, from memory, books which were
destroyed at the time of the bombardment of the Commercial Press in
Shanghai by the Japanese. He had prepared a two-volume work on the
life and principles of Sun Yat-sen and had left his manuscripts and other
papers in the vaults of the Press. When the Press was bombed the
manuscripts, documents, plates and Chinese translations were all destroyed;
the only things remaining were a few pages of proof sheets for <hi rend='italic'>The Life
and Principles of Sun Chung-san</hi>, which remain in the possession of the
present author. Judge Linebarger attempted to replace these volumes. He
had a few notebooks in which he had kept the outlines of his own
speeches; he had not used these, because of the secondary value. When,
however, the major volumes were lost, he returned to these notebooks and
reconstructed his speeches. They were issued in Paris in 1932 under the
title of <hi rend='italic'>The Gospel of Sun Chung-shan</hi>. He also prepared the <hi rend='italic'>Commentary</hi>
and the <hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi> from memory. These manuscripts possess a
certain somewhat questionable value. Judge Linebarger himself suggested
that they be allowed the same weight that testimony, based upon
memory but delivered under oath, upon a subject ten years past would
receive in a court of justice. The seven volumes described are in the
possession of the present author. Other materials to which the author
has had access are his father's diaries and various other private papers;
but since he has not cited them for references, he does not believe any
description of them necessary. Finally, there are the manuscripts of <hi rend='italic'>Sun
Yat-sen and the Chinese Republic</hi>, which contain a considerable amount of
material deleted from the published version of that work, which appeared
in New York in 1925. For comments on other source material
for Sun Yat-sen which is not generally used, see Bibliography.</note>
The author believes that on the basis of this material and
background he is justified in venturing into this comparatively
unknown field.
</p>

<p>
The primary sources for this work have been Sun Yat-sen's
own works. A considerable number of these were
written originally in the English language. Translations
of his major Chinese works are more or less fully available
in English, German, French, or Spanish. The author's
highly inadequate knowledge of the Chinese written language
has led him to depend almost altogether upon
translations, but he has sought&mdash;in some cases, perhaps,
unsuccessfully&mdash;to minimize the possibility of misunderstanding
or error by checking the translations against one
another. Through the assistance of his Chinese friends,
<pb n='x'/><anchor id='Pgx'/>
he has been able to refer to Sun's complete works in Chinese
and to Chinese books on Sun wherever such reference
was imperatively necessary. A list of the Chinese titles
thus made available is included in the bibliography. The
language difficulty, while an annoyance and a handicap,
has not been so considerable as to give the author reason
to suppose that his conclusions would have been different
in any significant respect had he been able to make free
and continuous use of Chinese and Russian sources.
</p>

<p>
The author has thought of the present work as a contribution
to political theory rather than to sinology, and
has tried to keep the discussion of sinological questions at
a minimum. In the transliteration of Chinese words and
names he has adhered more or less closely to the Wade
system, and has rendered most terms in the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>kuo yü</foreign>, or national
language. Despite this rule, he gives the name of
President Sun in its more commonly known Cantonese
form, Sun Yat-sen, rather than in the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>kuo yü</foreign>, Sun I-hsien.
</p>

<p>
In acknowledging assistance and encouragement received,
the author must first of all turn to his father, Judge
Paul Myron Wentworth Linebarger, Legal Advisor to
The National Government of China, counsellor to and
biographer of Sun Yat-sen during the latter's lifetime.
Without his patient encouragement and his concrete assistance,
this book could neither have been begun nor brought
to a conclusion after it was started. The author desires,
however, to make it perfectly clear that this work has no
relation to the connections of Judge Linebarger with the
Chinese Government or with the Nationalist Party. No
<pb n='xi'/><anchor id='Pgxi'/>
information coming to the knowledge of Judge Linebarger
in the course of his official duties has been here incorporated.
Anxiously scrupulous to maintain a completely
detached point of view, the author has refrained from
communicating with or submitting the book to Chinese
Government or Party officials, and writes purely as an
American student of China.
</p>

<p>
Professor James Hart, formerly at The Johns Hopkins
University and now at The University of Virginia, Professor
Arthur O. Lovejoy, The Johns Hopkins University,
Professor Harley Farnsworth MacNair and Dr. Ernest
Price, both of The University of Chicago, have rendered
inestimable assistance by reading the manuscript and giving
the author the benefit of their advice. Professor Hart
has criticized the work as an enterprise in political science.
Professor Lovejoy assisted the author by reading the first
third of the work, and selections of the later parts, and
applying his thorough and stimulating criticism; the
author regrets that he was unable to adopt all of Professor
Lovejoy's suggestions in full, and is deeply grateful for
the help. Professor MacNair read the book as a referee
for a dissertation, and made a great number of comments
which have made the book clearer and more accurate; the
author would not have ventured to present this work to
the public had it not been for the reassurances and encouragement
given him by Professor MacNair. Dr. Ernest
Price, while at The Hopkins, supervised the composition
of the first drafts; his judicious and balanced criticism,
based upon sixteen years' intimacy with the public and
private life of the Chinese, and a sensitive appreciation
of Chinese values, were of great value to the author in
establishing his perspective and lines of study. The author
takes this opportunity to thank these four gentlemen for
their great kindness and invaluable assistance.
</p>

<p>
It is with deep regret that the author abbreviates his
acknowledgments and thanks for the inspiration and the
<pb n='xii'/><anchor id='Pgxii'/>
favors he received in his study of Chinese politics from
Dr. C. Walter Young; Professor Frederic Ogg, of The
University of Wisconsin; Professors Kenneth Colegrove,
William McGovern, and Ikuo Oyama, of The Northwestern
University; Dr. Arthur Hummel, of The Library
of Congress; Professor Frederick Dunn, of Yale University;
Professor Arthur Holcombe, of Harvard University;
Professor Quincy Wright, of The University of Chicago;
and Dr. Wallace McClure, of The Department of State.
Many of the author's Chinese friends assisted by reading
the manuscript and criticizing it from their more intimate
knowledge of their own country, among them being
Messrs. Miao Chung-yi and Djang Chu, at The Johns
Hopkins University; Professor Jên T'ai, of Nankai University;
and Messrs. Wang Kung-shou, Ch'ing Ju-chi, and
Lin Mou-sheng, of The University of Chicago, made many
helpful suggestions. The author must thank his teachers
at The Johns Hopkins University, to whom he is indebted
for three years of the most patient assistance and stimulating
instruction, in respect of both the present work and
other fields in the study of government: Dr. Johannes
Mattern; Dr. Albert Weinberg; Mr. Leon Sachs; and Professor
W. W. Willoughby. Finally, he must acknowledge
his indebtedness to his wife, Margaret Snow Linebarger,
for her patient assistance in preparing this volume for
the press.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Paul M. A. Linebarger.</hi>
</p>

<p>
December, 1936.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='001'/><anchor id='Pg001'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Introduction.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Problem of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</foreign>.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Materials.</head>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen played many rôles in the history of his
times. He was one of those dramatic and somewhat formidable
figures who engage the world's attention at the
very outset of their careers. In the late years of the nineteenth
century, he was already winning some renown in
the West; it was picturesque that a Cantonese, a Christian
physician, should engage in desperate conspiracies
against the Manchu throne. Sun became known as a
political adventurer, a forerunner, as it were, of such mutually
dissimilar personages as Trotsky, Lawrence, and
Major-General Doihara. With the illusory success of the
revolution of 1911, and his Presidency of the first Republic,
Sun ceased being a conspirator in the eyes of the
world's press, and became the George Washington of
China. It is in this rôle that he is most commonly known,
and his name most generally recalled. After the world
war, in the atmosphere of extreme tension developed, perhaps,
by the Bolshevik revolution, Sun was regarded as
an enigmatic leader, especially significant in the struggle
between Asiatic nationalisms allied with the Soviets
against the traditional capitalist state-system. It was
through him that the Red anti-imperialist policy was
pushed to its greatest success, and he was hated and admired,
ridiculed and feared, down to the last moments of
his life. When he died, American reporters in Latvia
cabled New York their reports of Russian comments on
the event.<note place='foot'>Lyon Sharman, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen, His Life and Its Meaning</hi>, New York,
1934, p. 405.</note> More, perhaps, than any other Chinese of
modern times, Sun symbolized the entrance of China into
<pb n='002'/><anchor id='Pg002'/>
world affairs, and the inevitable confluence of Western
and Far Eastern history.
</p>

<p>
It is characteristic of Sun that he should have appeared
in another and final rôle after his death. He had been
thought of as conspirator, statesman, and mass leader;
but with the advent of his party to power it became publicly
apparent that he had also been a political philosopher.
The tremendous prestige enjoyed by him as state-founder
and party leader was enhanced by his importance
as prophet and law-giver. His doctrines became the state
philosophy of China, and for a while his most zealous
followers sought to have him canonized in a quite literal
fashion, and at one stroke to make him replace Confucius
and the Sons of Heaven. After the extreme enthusiasms
of the Sun Yat-sen cult subsided, Sun remained the great
national hero-sage of modern China. Even in those territories
where the authority of his political heirs was not
completely effective, his flag was flown and his doctrines
taught.
</p>

<p>
His doctrines have provided the theories upon which
the Nationalist revolution was based; they form the extra-juridical
constitution of the National Government of
China. When the forces hostile to Sun Yat-sen and his
followers are considered, it is amazing that his ideas and
ideals should have survived. An empire established with
the aid of Japanese arms, and still under Japanese hegemony,
controls Manchuria; parts of north China are ruled
by a bastard government, born of a compromise between
enemies; a largely unrecognized but powerful Soviet Republic
exists in outer Mongolia; the lamaist oligarchy goes
on in Tibet; and somewhere, in central and western China,
a Soviet group, not quite a government but more than a
conspiracy, is fighting for existence. It is quite probable
that nowhere else in the world can there be found a
greater variety of principles, each scheme of principles
fostered by an armed organization struggling with its
<pb n='003'/><anchor id='Pg003'/>
rivals. In this chaos the National Government has made
the most effective bid for authority and the greatest effort
for the reëstablishment of order; through it the principles
of Sun Yat-sen rule the political life of a population
greater than that of the United States or of the Soviet
Union.
</p>

<p>
It is difficult to evaluate the importance of political
doctrines. Even if <hi rend='italic'>The Three Principles</hi> is judged by
the extent of the population which its followers control,
it has achieved greater results in practical politics in
fifteen years than has Marxism in ninety. Such a criterion
may well be disputed, but, whatever the test, it cannot be
denied that the thought of Sun Yat-sen has played a major
part in the political development of his native land. It
may continue into the indefinitely remote future, or may
succumb to the perils that surround its advocates; in any
case, these doctrines have been taught long enough and
broadly enough to make an impress on the age, and have
been so significant in political and cultural history that
they can never sink into complete obscurity.
</p>

<p>
What are these doctrines? Sun Yat-sen was so voluminous
a writer that it would be impossible for his followers
to digest and codify all his writings into one neat and
coherent handbook; he himself did not provide one. Before
printing became common, there was a certain automatic
process of condensation which preserved the important
utterances of great men, and let their trivial sayings
perish. Sun, however, must have realized that he was
leaving a vast legacy of materials which are not altogether
coherent or consistent with one another. Certain of his
works were naturally more important than others, but, to
make the choice definitive, he himself indicated four
sources which his followers might draw upon for a definitive
statement of his views.<note place='foot'>He did this in his <hi rend='italic'>Political Testament</hi>, which is given in almost every
work on Sun Yat-sen or on modern Chinese politics. It was written in
February and signed in March 1925, shortly before his death.</note>
</p>

<pb n='004'/><anchor id='Pg004'/>

<p>
His <hi rend='italic'>Political Testament</hi> cites the <hi rend='italic'>Chien Kuo Fang Lo</hi>
(<hi rend='italic'>The Program of National Reconstruction</hi>), the <hi rend='italic'>Chien
Kuo Ta Kang</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>The Outline of National Reconstruction</hi>),
the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>The Triple Demism</hi>, also translated
as <hi rend='italic'>The Three Principles of the People</hi>), and the <hi rend='italic'>Manifesto</hi>
issued by the first national congress of the Party.<note place='foot'>The Chinese text of these is given in Hu Han-min, <hi rend='italic'>ed.</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Tsung-li
Ch'üan Chi</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>The Complete Works of the Leader</hi>), 4 vol. in 1, Shanghai,
1930. This collection comprises the most important works of Sun which
were published in his lifetime. Edited by one of the two scholars closest
to Sun, it is the standard edition of his works. English versions of varying
amounts of this material are given in Paschal M. d'Elia, <hi rend='italic'>The Triple
Demism of Sun Yat-sen</hi>, Wuchang, 1931; Frank W. Price, <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu
I, The Three Principles of the People</hi>, Shanghai, 1930; and Leonard
Shih-lien Hsü, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen, His Political and Social Ideals</hi>, Los Angeles,
1933. Each of these works will henceforth be cited by the name of its
editor; for brief descriptions and appraisals, see the bibliography.</note>
These four items differ quite sharply from one another
in form. No one of them can be relied upon to give the
whole of Sun's doctrines.
</p>

<p>
The <hi rend='italic'>Chien Kuo Fang Lo</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>The Program of National
Reconstruction</hi>) is in reality three works, only remotely
related to one another. The first item in the trilogy is
the <hi rend='italic'>Sun Wên Hsüeh Shê</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>The Philosophy of Sun Wên</hi>);
it is a series of familiar essays on the Chinese way of
thought.<note place='foot'>The only English version of this work is one prepared by Wei Yung,
under the title of <hi rend='italic'>The Cult of Dr. Sun</hi>, Shanghai, 1931. Fragments of
this work are also to be found in Vilenskii (Sibiriakov), V., <hi rend='italic'>Sun' Iat-sen,
Otets Kitaiskoi Revoliutsii</hi>, (<hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen, Father of the Chinese Revolution</hi>),
Moscow, 1925; <hi rend='italic'>Zapiski Kitaiskogo Revoliutsionera</hi>, (<hi rend='italic'>Notes of a
Chinese Revolutionary</hi>), Moscow, 1926; <hi rend='italic'>Memoirs of a Chinese Revolutionary</hi>,
Philadelphia, n. d.; and Karl Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat Sen, Aufzeichnungen
eines chinesischen Revolutionärs</hi>, Vienna &amp; Berlin, n. d. (ca.
1927).</note> The second is the <hi rend='italic'>Min Ch'üan Ts'u Pu</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>The
Primer of Democracy</hi>, which is little more than a text
on parliamentary law.<note place='foot'>This work has not been translated into any Western language.</note> The third is the <hi rend='italic'>Shih Yeh Chi
Hua</hi>, known in English as <hi rend='italic'>The International Development
<pb n='005'/><anchor id='Pg005'/>
of China</hi>, which Sun wrote in both English and Chinese.<note place='foot'>Sun Yat-sen, <hi rend='italic'>The International Development of China</hi>, New York and
London, 1929.</note>
These three works, under the alternate titles of <q>The
Program of Psychological Reconstruction,</q> <q>The Program
of Social Reconstruction,</q> and <q>The Program of
Material Reconstruction</q> form <hi rend='italic'>The Program of National
Reconstruction</hi>.
</p>

<p>
The <hi rend='italic'>Chien Kuo Ta Kang, The Outline of National
Reconstruction</hi>, is an outline of twenty-five points, giving
the necessary steps towards the national reconstruction
in their most concise form.<note place='foot'>This is given in Hsü, cited above, and in Min-ch'ien T. Z. Tyau,
<hi rend='italic'>Two Years of Nationalist China</hi>, Shanghai, 1930, pp. 439-442. Dr.
Tyau substitutes the word <q>Fundamentals</q> for <q>Outline,</q> a rather
happy choice.</note>
</p>

<p>
The <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> is Sun's most important work. It
comprises sixteen lectures setting forth his socio-political
theories and his programs. The title most commonly used
in Western versions is <hi rend='italic'>The Three Principles of the
People</hi>.<note place='foot'>See bibliography for a complete list of the translations. d'Elia translation,
cited, pp. 36-49, dedicates a whole chapter to the problem of an
adequate translation of the Chinese phrase <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>. He concludes
that it can only be rendered by a nelogism based upon Greek
roots: <hi rend='italic'>the triple demism</hi>, <q>demism</q> including the meaning of <q>principle
concerning and for the people</q> and <q>popular principle.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
The last document mentioned in Sun Yat-sen's will was
the <hi rend='italic'>Manifesto</hi> of the first national congress of the Kuomintang.
This was not written by himself, but was drafted
by Wang Ch'ing-wei, one of his closest followers, and
embodies essentially the same ideas as do the other three
items, even though Borodin&mdash;the emissary of the Third
International&mdash;had been consulted in its preparation.<note place='foot'>T'ang Leang-li, <hi rend='italic'>The Inner History of the Chinese Revolution</hi>, New
York, 1930, p. 166.</note>
</p>

<p>
Sun undoubtedly regretted leaving such a heterogeneous
and ill-assembled group of works as his literary bequest.
<pb n='006'/><anchor id='Pg006'/>
Throughout the latter years of his life he was studying
political science in the hope that he might be able to
complete a great treatise which he had projected, an
analysis and statement of the programs of the Chinese
nationalists. One attempt toward actualization of this
work was frustrated when Sun's manuscripts and a great
part of his library were burned in the attack launched
against him by Ch'en Ch'iung-ming in 1922. His apology
for the makeshift volume on the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> is pathetic:
<q>As I had neither time to prepare nor books to
use as references, I could do nothing else in these lectures
but improvise after I ascended the platform. Thus
I have omitted and forgotten many things which were in
my original manuscript. Although before having them
printed, I revised them, added (passages) and eliminated
(others), yet, those lectures are far from coming
up to my original manuscripts, either in the subject matter
itself, or in the concatenations of the discussion, or in
the facts adduced as proofs.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 58.</note> Sun was in all probability
a more assiduous and widely read student of political
science than any other world leader of his day except
Wilson; he studied innumerable treatises on government,
and was surprisingly familiar with the general
background of Western politics, in theory and practice.
He was aware of the shabby appearance that these undigested
occasional pieces would present when put forth as
the bible of a new China, and earnestly enjoined his followers
to carry on his labors and bring them to fruition.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 58.</note>
</p>

<p>
The various works included in the <hi rend='italic'>Chien Kuo Fang Lo</hi>,
while satisfactory for the purposes Sun had in mind
when he wrote them, are not enough to outline the fundamentals
both of political theory and a governmental
plan. The familiar essays have an important bearing on
the formation of the ideology of a new China; the primer
<pb n='007'/><anchor id='Pg007'/>
of democracy, less; the industrial plan is one of those
magnificent dreams which, in the turn of a decade, may
inspire an equally great reality. The outline and the
manifesto are no more suited to the rôle of classics; they
are decalogues rather than bibles.<note place='foot'>See Lyon Sharman, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen, His Life and Its Meaning</hi>, New
York, 1934, p. 292, for a stimulating discussion of the parts that the
various documents played in the so-called "cult of Sun Yat-sen."</note> There remains the
<hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>.
</p>

<p>
The <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> is a collection of sixteen lectures
delivered in Canton in 1924. There were to have been
eighteen, but Sun was unable to give the last two. Legend
has it that Borodin persuaded Sun to give the series.<note place='foot'>Sharman, cited, p. 270.</note>
Whatever the cause of their being offered, they attracted
immediate attention. Interest in Sun and in his ideas was
at a fever heat; his friends turned to the printed lectures
for guidance; his enemies, for statements which could be
turned against him. Both friends and enemies found what
they wanted. To the friends, the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> presented
a fairly complete outline of Sun's political and
social thought in such a form that it could be preserved
and broadcast readily. There was danger, before the book
appeared, that the intrinsic unity in Sun's thinking would
be lost sight of by posterity, that his ideas would appear
as a disconnected jumble of brilliant inspirations. The
sixteen lectures incorporated a great part of the doctrines
which he had been preaching for more than a generation.
To the enemies of Sun, the work was welcome. They
pointed out the numerous simplifications and inconsistencies,
the frequent contradictions in matters of detail, the
then outrageous denunciations of the economic and political
system predominant in the Far East. They ridiculed
Sun because he was Chinese, and because he was
not Chinese enough, and backed up their criticisms with
passages from the book.<note place='foot'>A typical instance of this sort of criticism is to be found in
the annotations to the anonymous translation of the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>
which was published by a British newspaper in 1927 (<hi rend='italic'>The Three
Principles</hi>, Shanghai, 1927). The translator and annotator both remained
anonymous; the translation was wholly inadequate; and the annotations a
marvel of invective. Almost every page of the translation was studded
with notes pointing out and gloating over the most trivial errors and
inconsistencies. The inflamed opinion of the time was not confined to
the Chinese.</note>
</p>

<pb n='008'/><anchor id='Pg008'/>

<p>
When Sun gave the lectures, he was a sick man. He
carried an ivory-headed sword cane with him on the platform;
occasionally, holding it behind him and locking his
arms through it, he would press it against his back to
relieve the intolerable pain.<note place='foot'>Paul M. W. Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Deutschlands Gegenwärtige Gelegenheiten
in China</hi>, Brussels, 1936, p. 53. Judge Linebarger repeats the story told
him by General Morris Cohen, the Canadian who was Sun's bodyguard
throughout this period.</note> The business awaiting him
after each lecture was vitally important; the revolution
was proceeding by leaps and bounds. The lectures are the
lectures of a sick man, given to a popular audience in the
uproar of revolution, without adequate preparation, improvised
in large part, and offered as one side of a crucial
and bitterly disputed question. The secretaries who took
down the lectures may not have succeeded in following
them completely; Sun had no leisure to do more than
skim through the book before releasing it to the press.
</p>

<p>
These improvised lectures have had to serve as the
fundamental document of Nationalist China. Sun Yat-sen
died without writing the treatise he had planned.
The materials he left behind were a challenge to scholars
and to his followers. Many persons set to work interpreting
them, each with a conscious or unconscious end
in view. A German Marxian showed Sun to be a forerunner
of bolshevism; an American liberal showed Sun
to be a bulwark against bolshevism. A Chinese classicist
demonstrated Sun's reverence for the past; a Jesuit father
explained much by Sun's modern and Christian background.
His works have been translated into Western
<pb n='009'/><anchor id='Pg009'/>
languages without notes; the improvised lectures, torn
from their context of a revolutionary crisis, have served
poorly to explain the ideology of Sun Yat-sen, and his
long range political, social, and economic plans.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Necessity of an Exposition.</head>

<p>
Followers of Sun who knew him personally, or were
members of that circle in which his ideas and opinions
were well known, have found the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> and
other literary remains helpful; they have been able to
turn to the documents to refresh their memories of Sun
on some particular point, or to experience the encouraging
force of his faith and enthusiasm again. They need not
be reminded of the main tenets of his thought, or of the
fundamental values upon which he based his life and
his political activities. His sense of leadership, which
strangers have at times thought fantastic, is one which
they admire in him, since they, too, have felt the power
of his personality and have experienced that leadership
in the course of their own lives. His voice is ringing in
their consciences; they feel no need of a guide to his mind.
At the present day many members of Sun's own family,
and a considerable number of his veteran disciples are
still living; the control of the National Government is
in their hands. They are people who need no commentary
on Sun Yat-sen; to them, he died only yesterday.
</p>

<p>
Others, who met Sun only casually, or who could know
him only through his writings, have a quite different impression
of his thought. They perforce assume that he
thought as he wrote, and fail to realize that virtually all
his writings and speeches were occasional pieces, improvisations
designed as propaganda. One of the most respected
American authorities on China says that in the
<hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> <q>... there is a combination of sound
social analysis, keen comment on comparative political
<pb n='010'/><anchor id='Pg010'/>
science, and bombast, journalistic inaccuracy, jejune philosophizing
and sophomoric economics.</q><note place='foot'>Nathaniel Peffer, <hi rend='italic'>China: The Collapse of a Civilization</hi>, New York,
1930, p. 155.</note> This view is
one which can scarcely be attacked, if one considers only
the printed lectures, and overlooks the other utterances
and the personality of Sun. To apply this, or any similar
estimate (and there are many of them), to all of Sun
Yat-sen's thought would be woefully inaccurate. It is not
the critic's fault that Sun never found time to write a
sober, definitive political treatise expressing his ideas; it
is, nevertheless, the critic's responsibility to weigh the
value of the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>, and consider the importance
which Sun himself attached to it, before judging Sun's
whole philosophy by a hastily-composed and poorly written
book.
</p>

<p>
Yet, if the Western student of modern Chinese history
were to look elsewhere for some general exposition of
Sun Yat-sen's political ideas, he would find none. He
could discover several excellent translations of the sixteen
lectures, and parts of the other work of Sun. He
would be helped by the prefatory notes to some of these
translations.<note place='foot'>d'Elia, cited; Hsü, cited; and Wittfogel, cited.</note> A few treatises would be available to him
on special phases of Sun's thought: the influence of
Maurice William, and the influence of the Russian Communists.<note place='foot'>Maurice William, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen Versus Communism</hi>, Baltimore, 1932;
and Tsui Shu-chin, <hi rend='italic'>The Influence of the Canton-Moscow Entente upon
Sun Yat-sen's Political Philosophy</hi>, in <hi rend='italic'>The Social and Political Science
Review</hi>, XVIII, 1, 2, 3, Peiping, 1934; and other works listed in
bibliography, pp. 268-269.</note>
In addition, there would be the biographies,
of which there are more than a dozen, and a few other
useful although not general works. None of these sifts
Sun's thought, seeking to separate the transitory from the
permanent in his ideas. For this the searcher would have
to rely on brief outlines of Sun's ideas, to be found in
<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>
works dealing with modern China or the Chinese revolution.<note place='foot'>Two such are the chapters on Sun Yat-sen's thought to be found in
Harley Farnsworth MacNair, <hi rend='italic'>China in Revolution</hi>, Chicago, 1931,
pp. 78-91 (Chapter VI, <q>The Ideology and Plans of Sun Yat-sen</q>)
and Arthur N. Holcombe, <hi rend='italic'>The Chinese Revolution</hi>, Cambridge (Massachusetts),
1930, pp. 120-155 (Chapter V, <q>The Revolutionary Politics
of Sun Yat-sen</q>). The former is the shorter of the two, and is a
summary of the various documents involved. The distinction between
the ideology and the plans is so convenient and illuminating that the
present writer has adopted it. Except for the comments on the influence
of William upon Sun Yat-sen, it is completely reliable. The latter is a
discussion, rather than an outline, and admirably presents the gist of
Sun's thought.</note>
</p>

<p>
This relative scarcity of exegetic material concerning
the ideology and programs of Sun is not the result of any
inadequacy on the part of those persons, both Chinese
and Western, who have devoted thought and time to his
life or to the translation of his works. It is one thing
to point out a task that has yet to be done; and quite
another, actually to perform it. An interpretation or exposition
of Sun's thought, to be worthy of the great significance
of the original, must be very thorough; but
scarcely enough time has elapsed to allow a perspective
of all the materials, let alone an orientation of Sun in
the Far Eastern scene. Yet the importance of Sun demands
that something be done to bring his thought to
the attention of the world, so that the usual distortion of
his personality&mdash;arising from the lack of commentaries&mdash;may
be avoided in present day works. In a sense, the time
is not ripe for a definitive treatment of Sun, either as a
figure in history or as a contributor to the significant and
enduring political thought of modern times; any work
now done will, as time passes, fall grotesquely far short
of adequacy. On the other hand, there is so much material
of a perishable nature&mdash;anecdotes and legends not
yet committed to print, and the memories of living men&mdash;now
available, that a present-day work on Sun may gain
<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>
in color and intimacy what it loses in judgment and objectivity,
may gain in proximity what it has to forgo in
detachment. And, lastly, the complete absence of any
systematic presentation of Sun's ideas in any Western language
is so great a deficiency in the fields of Far Eastern
history and world political thought, that even a relatively
inadequate exposition of the thought of Sun Yat-sen may
prove to be not without value. Sun himself never explained
his philosophy, whether theoretical or applied,
in any broad, systematic fashion; nor has anyone else
done so.
</p>

<p>
If the permissibility of an exposition of Sun Yat-sen's
thought be conceded, there still remains the vexing problem
of a choice of method. While the far-flung peripheries
of Sun's thought touch almost every field of knowledge
and opinion, a systematic condensation of his views
cannot hope to survey the same broad ranges. The problem
of proportion, of just emphasis, involves the nice
appraisal of the degree of importance which each of Sun's
minor rôles had in his intellectual career as a whole. Nor
do the difficulties concerning method end with the consideration
of proportion; they merely begin, for there remains
the far more important and perplexing problem of
a technique of interpretation.
</p>

<p>
Interpretation obviously relates to the problem of language.
The translation of theoretical terms from Chinese
into English constitutes a formidable difficulty which
proves, in several instances, to be insuperable. No satisfactory
equivalent for <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> (usually rendered <q>livelihood</q>)
can be found in English; even simpler and less
specialized terms are extremely difficult to render. Sometimes
it would be convenient to employ four or five alternative
translations for one Chinese term. Sun uses the
word <q>nationalism</q> in the sense that a Westerner would,
in advocating national consciousness in a China hitherto
unfamiliar with the conception of nation-states; but, in
<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>
a different context, he uses it in the sense of <q>patriotism.</q><note place='foot'>Holcombe, cited, p. 136 ff.</note>
These difficulties must be faced and, somehow
or other, overcome. When the Western reader encounters
a familiar term in an unexpected place, he must be
prepared to meet a shift of meaning. No amount of definition
can make a Chinese term, which has no exact Western
equivalent, completely clear. It is simpler to grow
accustomed to the term, to gather together its connotations,
to understand something of the frame of reference
wherein it is set, and thereby to learn it as a child learns
a word. A dictionary is no help to a baby; in a realm of
unfamiliar ideas even scholars must learn terms step by
step.
</p>

<p>
Less obviously than language, the translation of ideas
and of values is also involved in interpretation. In dealing
with the intellectual content of a civilization as alien
as that of China, the Westerner must be wary of the easy
analogy. The full, forceful application of Western ideas
and values in a world to which they are completely irrelevant
produced strange results during the nineteenth century.
Western notions of goodness and reasonableness did
not fit the Chinese scheme of things. Under such a test
a wildly distorted image of China was obtained. China
seemed peculiar, topsy-turvy, fantastic. To themselves the
Chinese still seemed quite matter-of-fact, and the Westerners
thought even this odd and ridiculous: not only
was China upside-down, but the Chinese did not know
it! In any case, the present-day scholar, to whom so much
material concerning the Chinese is available and China so
near, has little justification for applying Western tests of
virtue and rationality to things Chinese.
</p>

<p>
If the application of Western values to China is
avoided, there is still the danger that the Chinese scheme
of things may not be interpreted at all. The literal translation
<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>
of Chinese terms strips them of their contexts. The
result may be unintelligibility. The Chinese term <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign> is
frequently rendered <q>benevolence,</q> a Western word
which, while at times an approximate equivalent, fails to
carry the full burden of meaning. Sun speaks of an interpretation
of history antagonistic to dialectical materialism&mdash;the
interpretation of history by <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>. A <q>benevolent</q>
interpretation of history means nothing whatever to a
Westerner. If <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign> is translated into a different configuration
of words, and given as <q>group-consciousness</q> or
<q>social fellow-feeling,</q> the result, while still not an exact
equivalent of the Chinese, is distinctly more intelligible.
</p>

<p>
To effect this translation of ideas and values, several
methods are available. The issue cannot be dodged by a
denial of its existence; the mere act of explanation involves
some process, whether deliberate or unconscious,
of translation and transvaluation. If the interpreter refuses
to deal with the problem consciously, he will nevertheless
be guided by his unrevealed assumptions. To give
an accounting for what he has done, he must, first, admit
that he is interpreting, and second, seek to make plain
what he is doing, so that his readers may allow for the
process. The demonstration of the consequences of interpretation
minimizes their possible adverse effects. The
simplest way to allow for the alterations (beyond mere
reproduction) arising from interpretation would be to
adopt a technique so widely known that others could, in
their own minds, try to re-trace the steps of the process
and negate the changes. Among such widely known
techniques are the Marxian and the sociological.
</p>

<p>
Both these scarcely seem adapted to the problems presented
by an interpretation of Sun Yat-sen. The Marxian
terminology is so peculiarly suited to the ulterior purposes
the Marxians keep in mind, and is so esoteric when
applied to matters not related to the general fields in
which the Marxians are interested, that it could scarcely
<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>
be applied in the present instance. A non-Marxian would
find it a hazardous task. The interpreter of Sun Yat-sen
must interpret <emph>into</emph> something; what, depends on the audience.
Dialectical materialism, in the abstract excellent as
a technique, would scarcely make Sun understandable to
most Americans of the present day. Sun himself rejected
the Marxian method of interpretation; an American audience
would also reject it; these two factors outweigh all
the conceivable advantages.
</p>

<p>
The sociological technique of interpretation is quite
another question. The various methods of analysis developed
by each of the schools of sociologists are still the
objects rather than the tools of study. Such men as Max
Weber and Vilfredo Pareto have made contributions to
Western social thought which enrich the scope and method
of the social studies. Their methods of analysis are not
weighted down by a body of extraneous considerations,
as is the Marxian, and they promise an objectivity not
otherwise attainable. On the other hand, they are still at
that stage of development where the technique obtrudes
itself; it has not, as has the inductive method in general,
become so much taken for granted as to be invisible.
</p>

<p>
The sociological approach need not, however, be carried
to the full extent thought necessary by its advocates.
In the study of law, the consideration of extra-juridical
materials is called sociological in contrast to the strictly
juristic. If the legal scholar goes beyond the strict framework
of the law, and considers other elements in man's
behavior and knowledge while dealing with legal problems,
he is apt to be called a sociological jurist. In doing
so he is not committed, however, to belief in or use of
any particular form of what is known as the science of
society or sociology. He may adopt almost any sort of
social outlook, or may be committed to any one of many
doctrines of social value and to any one of widely varying
methods of social study.
</p>

<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>

<p>
This negative, broad sense of the sociological, when
applied to the study of politics, has commonly meant that
the scholars employing it began with the notion of the
political, but, finding it too narrow, touched upon related
fields. An interpretation of Sun Yat-sen's politics might
be based on this method. It would still be a political
work, in that it sought to associate his ideas with the ideas
concerning government to be found in the West, but
would be free, nevertheless, to touch upon non-political
materials relevant to Sun's politics. The Chinese have
had notions of authority and control radically different
from those developed in the West; a purely juristic interpretation
of the various Chinese politics would simply
scrape the lacquer off the screen.
</p>

<p>
The Chinese have not had the sharp distinction of
disciplines which runs through all Western learning.
Since one of the most conspicuous ingredients in their
thought&mdash;conspicuous, that is, to Westerners looking in
from outside&mdash;has been the ethical, many Westerners
have dismissed Chinese historical, political and more
strictly philosophical thought as being loosely and amiably
ethical but never getting anywhere. The Chinese did not
departmentalize their learning to any considerable degree.
Politics was not the special activity of a definite group of
men, or the study of a select body of scholars. Politics
ran through and across most of the activities in society,
and was largely the interest of that intellectual élite by
which China has been so distinguished on the roster of
civilizations. In becoming everything, politics ceased being
politics; that is, those elements in man's thought and
behavior which Westerners have termed political were not
separated and labelled. The Westerner must say that
politics was everything in China, or that it was nothing.
</p>

<p>
An interpretation of Sun Yat-sen must keep in mind
these differences between Chinese and Western categories.
In doing so it will pass beyond the limits of what is commonly
<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>
known as politics, since no sharp boundaries of
<q>politics</q> are to be found in China. Yet, as an interpretation
designed to serve Western readers, it must return
again and again to Western politics, making comparisons
when they are justified, pointing out differences
between China and the West as they become relevant and
clear. The interpretation will thus weave back and forth
between conventional Western political science, with its
state-mindedness, and the wholly different material of
traditions and customs out of which Sun sought to construct
an ideology and a system of working politics for
China in the modern world.
</p>

<p>
How can this interpretation seek to avoid the misfortunes
and errors into which so many similar attempts have
fallen? It must proceed without the aid of such specialized
techniques as dialectical-materialistic or Paretian
analysis, and yet aim at the scientific, the rationally defensible,
the objective. In seeking to apply a method in
the interpretation of Sun Yat-sen, the work must face
criticism of its method, must make the method explicit
and simple enough to allow criticism. If the thought of
Sun really is to emerge from the exposition, the exposition
must allow itself to be judged, so that it can be appraised,
and so that, one way or another, it may not interfere
with the just evaluation of the materials which it
seeks to present. Sun Yat-sen should not be judged poor
because of a poor interpretation; nor, on the other hand,
should his thought be adjudged more excellent or more
exact than it seems to the Chinese, merely because the
expositor has suggested an interpretation possibly more
precise.
</p>

<p>
The technique adopted in the present work is a relatively
simple one. It is an attempt to start <foreign rend='italic'>de novo</foreign> with
certain concepts of society and government. Several simple
although novel terms are introduced, to provide a
foundation upon which the procedure may rest. One of
<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>
these, for instance, is <q>ideology,</q> which in the present
work refers to the whole psychological conditioning of a
group of persons.<note place='foot'>The word <q>ideology</q> is one of the catchwords of the hour. The
author regrets having to use it, but dares not coin a neologism to replace
it. He does not desire that <q>ideology</q> be opposed to <q>truth,</q> but uses
the word in its broadest possible sense, referring to the whole socio-psychological
conditioning of a group of people. He does not, therefore,
speak of ideologies as a collection of Paretian derivations, fictions which
mask some <q>truth.</q> He considers his own background&mdash;or Pareto's,
for that matter&mdash;as ideological, and&mdash;in the sense of the word here employed&mdash;cannot
conceive of any human belief or utterance <emph>not</emph> ideological.
The task he has set himself is the transposition of a pattern of Chinese
ideas concerning government from the Chinese ideology to the Western-traditionalist
ideology of the twentieth century. Whether one, the other,
neither, or both, is <q>right,</q> is quite beside the point, so far as the
present enterprise is concerned. In calling the whole non-physical background
of a society the ideology of that society, the author can excuse his
novel use of the term only if he admits that he establishes the new
meaning by definition, without any necessary reference to the previous use
of the term. He has no intention of following, in the present work, any
<q>theory of ideology</q> or definition of <q>ideology</q> established by political
philosophers, such as Marx, or sociologists such as Weber, Mannheim, or
Pareto. (Professor A. O. Lovejoy suggested the following definition of
the term, <q>ideology,</q> after having seen the way it was employed in this
work: <q><emph>Ideology</emph> means a complex of ideas, in part ethical, in part
political, in part often religious, which is current in a society, or which
the proponents of it desire to make current, as an effective means of controlling
behavior.</q>)</note> No attempt is made, at the beginning
or at any later phase of the exposition, to distinguish
between the ideology as belief and the ideology as
truth. Whether the Chinese were and are right, or the
Westerners, are questions, not for the student of comparative
political science, but for the philosopher and
the psychologist. The interpretation seeks, as far as possible,
to transpose certain parts of the traditional Chinese
ideology, as they were, and as Sun Yat-sen re-shaped them,
into one frame of reference provided by the ideology of
twentieth-century America. What the <q>real truth</q> is,
does not matter; the Marxians would say that both ideologies
were inexact; so might the Roman Catholics. If the
<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>
ideology of old China, and the ideology that Sun wished
to see developed in the minds of the Chinese people of
the future, can be made comprehensible in terms of contemporary
American beliefs, of fact or of value, this
venture will have been successful.
</p>

<p>
The Chinese ideology cannot be explained in its own
terms; these exist only in the Chinese language. If Sun
Yat-sen's own arrangement of his works is inadequate for
the Chinese, rearrangement is a task for the Chinese and
not for the Western scholars to perform. The Westerners
who deal with Sun can contribute substantially only if
they give what the Chinese cannot&mdash;enough of a reference
to their own ideology to permit a broader scale for
the analysis and the appreciation of Sun's thought. Their
knowledge of their own world of ideas is the special tool
which justifies their intervention in this Chinese field of
knowledge.
</p>

<p>
In avoiding the unjustifiable imposition of Western
ideas and values upon the Chinese, and yet orienting
Sun's thought with respect to the West, the interpretation
will have to resort to several fairly evident means.
In the first place, it will have to transpose Chinese ideas
into the Western ideology, and yet avoid distortions of
meaning. This can be partly done by the use of neutral
terms, of terms which are simple and clear enough to
reproduce the Chinese, and nevertheless not so heavily
burdened with connotations that they will cause a reading-in
of Western ideas not relevant to the point in question.
More simply, the Chinese ideas must be represented
by terms which approximate the same set of values in
the West that their originals have in China. This will
sometimes require the use of unfamiliar periphrases: the
words <q>music</q> and <q>rites</q> may be given as <q>the
rhythm of life</q> and <q>conformity to the ideology.</q> Secondly,
the Chinese ideology need not be given as a whole;
it is improbable that it could, without a terrific expansion
<pb n='020'/><anchor id='Pg020'/>
of the Western ideology to accommodate it; but enough
of the Chinese ideology must be given to explain the significant
differences between the Chinese system of controlling
the behavior of men, and the Western. This latter
involves the choice of material, and is therefore by its
nature challengeable.
</p>

<p>
Again, in demonstrating significant differences instead
of merely seeking analogous (and probably misleading)
examples, the interpretation might turn to certain aspects
of Chinese philosophy which appear as strikingly illustrative
of the point of view of the Chinese. Confucius
the political thinker is only a small part of Confucius the
man and the philosopher; Chinese political thought, although
a vast field, is only a small part of the social
thought of the Chinese. Only an infinitesimal part of
this comparatively minor area of Chinese study will suffice
to make clear some, at least, of the sharp differences
of outlook between China and the West.
</p>

<p>
A recapitulation of this declaration of technique may
be found helpful, for an understanding of Sun Yat-sen
by Westerners is necessary because of the vastly different
background of his thought. Even apart from the strangeness
of his thought to the West, it is scattered in the
original, and must be pieced together. An exposition of
his ideas which would, at one and the same time, present
a systematic outline of his ideas, and transpose them into
a frame of reference where Western scholars might grasp
them, might be a labor meriting performance. His terms
would have to be rendered by neutral words (not overladen
with particular Western contexts) or by neologisms,
or simply left in the original, to develop meaning as a
configuration of related ideas is built up about them. The
problem of interpretation cannot, however, be solved by
settling the difficulty of language: there still remains the
question of a technique which can pretend to the scientific,
the exact, the rationally defensible. Despite their great
<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>
merits, the Marxian and Paretian techniques are not suited
to the present task. The point of view and means of
study of political science may be kept, if a few necessary
borrowings from sociological thought (not necessarily sociology)
are introduced. Such borrowing includes the use
of notions such as non-political society, patterns of authority,
and ideology, none of which are to be found in
the more law-minded part of political science. By seeking
to point out the Chinese, then the Western, ideas involved,
without confusing the two, the presentation may
succeed in transposing the ideology of Sun Yat-sen, as
well as his beliefs concerning working politics, into the
English language and into an explanatory but not distorting
background. To do this, a small sampling of certain
aspects of old Chinese social thought and behavior
will be a required preliminary.
</p>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter I. The Ideological, Social, and Political Background.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Rationale of the Readjustment.</head>

<p>
The <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> and related works of Sun Yat-sen
represent in their entirety one of the most ambitious
bodies of doctrine ever set forth by a political leader.
They differ from such a document as the Communist
Manifesto in that they comprehend a much greater range
of subject matter and deal with it in much greater detail.
They pertain not merely to the reconstitution of an economic
or political system; they propose a plan for the
reconstruction of a whole civilization, the reformation of
a way of thought customary among a great part of the
human race, and a consequent transformation of men's
behavior. Conceived in the bold flights of a penetrating,
pioneering mind, avowedly experimental at the time of
their first utterance, these works of Sun have already
played a most significant rôle in the Far East and may
continue to affect history for a long time to come. They
may quite legitimately be called the bible of new China.
</p>

<p>
Social change is a consequence of maladjustment. The
thought of Sun Yat-sen is a program of change&mdash;change
which, if it is to be understood, must be seen at its beginning
and its end. The background from which Sun
emerged and which was an implicit condition of all his
utterances must be mentioned, so that the problems he
faced may be understood. Only then will it be possible
to turn to the plans he devised for the rethinking of Chinese
tradition and the reorganization of Chinese polity.
A vast maladjustment between the Chinese and the world
outside led to the downfall of the Manchu Empire in
China and has threatened the stability of every government
<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>
erected since that time; Chinese society is in a state
of profound unrest and recurrent turmoil. Sun Yat-sen
contributed to the change, and sought a new order, to be
developed from the disorder which, voluntarily or not, he
helped in part to bring about.
</p>

<p>
The old order that failed, the <emph>interregnum</emph> (in the etymological
sense of the word), and the new order proposed
by Sun must be taken all together in order to obtain
a just understanding of Sun's thought. No vast history
need be written, no <hi rend='italic'>Decline and Fall of the Chinese Empire</hi>
is necessary, but some indication of the age-old foundations
and proximate conditions of Sun's thought must
be obtained.
</p>

<p>
These may, perhaps, be found in a sampling of certain
data from the thought and behavior of the Chinese as a
group under the old system, and the selection of a few
important facts from the history of China since the first
stages of the maladjustment. An exposition of Sun's
thought must not slur the great importance of the past,
yet it dare not linger too long on this theme lest the
present&mdash;in which, after all, uncounted millions of Chinese
are desperately struggling for life&mdash;come to seem
insignificant.
</p>

<p>
Confucianism is a philosophy so broad and so highly
developed that any selection does violence to its balance
and proportion, which are among its chief merits.<note place='foot'>Confucianism may be read in the Legge translations, a popular
abridged edition of which was issued in 1930 in Shanghai under the title
of <hi rend='italic'>The Four Books</hi>. Commentaries on Confucius which present him in a
well-rounded setting are Richard Wilhelm, <hi rend='italic'>Confucius and Confucianism</hi>,
New York, 1931; the same, <hi rend='italic'>Ostasien, Werden und Wandel des Chinesischen
Kulturkreises</hi>, Potsdam, 1928, for a very concise account and the
celebrated <hi rend='italic'>Geschichte der chinesischen Kultur</hi>, Munich, 1928, for a longer
account in a complete historical setting; Frederick Starr, <hi rend='italic'>Confucianism</hi>,
New York, 1930; H. G. Creel, <hi rend='italic'>Sinism</hi>, Chicago, 1929; and Marcel
Granet, <hi rend='italic'>La Civilization Chinoise</hi>, Paris, 1929. Bibliographies are found in
several of these works. They deal with Confucius either in his historical
setting or as the main object of study, and are under no necessity of
distorting Confucius' historical rôle for the purpose of showing his
connection with some other topic. The reader may gauge the amount of
distortion necessary when he imagines a work on Lenin, written for the
information and edification of Soviet Eskimos, which&mdash;for the sake of
clarity&mdash;was forced to summarize all Western thought, from Plato and
Jesus Christ down to Immanuel Kant and Karl Marx, in a few pages providing
a background to Lenin.</note> Yet
<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>
only those few facts can be taken from the history and
thought of the Chinese which may assist the Westerner
in becoming familiar with a few terms which recur again
and again in the works of Sun Yat-sen. If the present
work purported to be a study of Chinese history, or a
complete analysis of the Chinese social system, such an
extreme selectivity could not be condoned; since it, however,
tries only to outline Sun's thought, the selection of
a few Confucian doctrines and the complete ignoring of
others, may be forgiven. All the schools of the past, and
the literary traditions which developed from them, and
social tendencies that were bound up with these have to
be omitted, and those few ideas and customs described
which bear directly on one single point&mdash;the most significant
ideological differences between the Chinese and
the West with respect to the political order, i. e. the control
of men in society in the name of all society.<note place='foot'>There is a work on Confucianism upon which the author has leaned
quite heavily: Leonard Shih-lien Hsü, <hi rend='italic'>The Political Philosophy of Confucianism</hi>,
New York, 1932. Dr. Hsü is interested in sociological political
theory. The novelty of his work has aroused a great amount of
criticism among Chinese scholars of the older disciplines, whether the
relatively conservative and established Western disciplines or the ultra-conservative
schools of the truly classical literati. His work cannot be
recommended for any purposes other than those which Dr. Hsü himself
had in mind; there are several other works, the product of philosophers,
historians, and literary historians, which will present a portrait of Confucius
and Confucianism more conventionally exact. In its own narrow
but definite field Dr. Hsü's work is an impressive accomplishment; he
transposes the Confucian terms into those of the most advanced schools of
social thought. A reader not forewarned might suffer by this, and read
into Confucius an unwarranted modernity of outlook; if, however, the
up-to-dateness is recognized as Dr. Hsü's and not Confucius', the work
is valuable. It puts Confucius on common ground with modern social
theory, ground on which he does not belong, but where his ideas are
still relevant and interesting. The present author follows Dr. Hsü in
this transposition of Confucius, but begs the reader to remember that
this is one made for purposes of comparison only, and not intended
as valid for all purposes. (He must acknowledge the stimulating criticism
of Mr. Jan Tai, of the Library of Congress, who made it clear that this
distortion of Confucius was one which could be excused only if it were
admitted.)&mdash;An interesting presentation of Confucius as transposed into
the older political theory, untouched by sociology, is to be found in
Senator Elbert Duncan Thomas, <hi rend='italic'>Chinese Political Thought</hi>, New York,
1927.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<anchor id='Section_Nation_and_State'/>
<head>Nation and State in Chinese Antiquity.</head>

<p>
The Confucian system, against which Sun Yat-sen reacted
in part and in part sought to preserve, was a set of
ideas and institutions developed as a reaction against certain
conditions in ancient China. These conditions may
be roughly described as having arisen from a system of
proto-nationalisms, at a time when the old&mdash;perhaps prehistorically
ancient&mdash;Chinese feudal system was rapidly
declining and an early form of capitalism and of states
was taking its place. The Chou dynasty (ca. 1150-221
B.C.) was in power at the time of this transition; under
its rule the golden age of Chinese philosophy appeared&mdash;Confucius
(552-479 B.C.) and Lao Tzŭ (ca. 570-ca. 490
B.C.) lived and taught.
</p>

<p>
Their philosophies, contrary to the popular Western
beliefs concerning Chinese philosophies, were protests
against a world which seemed to them well-nigh intolerable.
The old Chinese system, which may seem to Westerners
a highly mystical feudal organization, was in its
century-long death-agonies; the virtues it had taught were
not the virtues of the hour; the loyalties it had set up
were loyalties which could scarcely be maintained in a
time when rising states, acting more and more as states
have acted in the West, were disrupting the earlier organization
<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>
of society, waging struggles&mdash;in the manner
that, centuries later, Machiavelli was to portray&mdash;of intrigue
and warfare for the eventual hegemony over that
whole area of eastern Asia which the Chinese of that time
regarded as the civilized world.
</p>

<p>
The political aspects of the transition from the feudal
to the proto-national system is described by one of the
most eminent of the Western authorities on China in the
following terms: <q>The aim of all the Leaders was to
control western Ho-nan. There is the heart of ancient
China.... All around about, in vaster regions occupied
no doubt by less dense and more shifting populations,
great States formed, increasing first towards the exterior,
seeking (as we have seen in the case of China) to cut
the communication of their rivals with the Barbarians,
mutually forcing each other to change the directions of
the expansion, exercising on each other a pressure from
behind, and a converging pressure on the central overlordships.
All schemed to conquer them. Thus an amalgamation
was achieved. Whilst in the centre the Chinese
nation was coming into being, on the outer borders States
were being formed which, aiming at annexing the centre
of China, ended by themselves also becoming Chinese.</q><note place='foot'>Granet, <hi rend='italic'>Chinese Civilization</hi>, cited, p. 84. Granet's work, while challenged
by many sinologues as well as by anthropologists, is the most
brilliant portrayal of Chinese civilization to the time of Shih Huang Ti.
His interpretations make the language of the <hi rend='italic'>Odes</hi> (collected by Confucius)
intelligible, and clear up the somewhat obscure transition from
the oldest feudal society to the epoch of the proto-nations and then to
the inauguration of the world order.</note>
Not only did the newer, political organization of society
begin to make itself distinct from the family, feudal, and
religious organization; it began to engage in activities
which increased its resemblance to the Western system
of nations. Tributes of textiles, horses, and compulsory
labor were demanded. A non-feudal economy was encouraged;
<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>
the state of Ch'i encouraged artisans and merchants,
and favored the trade in fish and salt. Mining,
metallurgy and currency were studied. State monopolies
were created out of the products of forests, lakes, marshes,
shell-fish beds, and salt pans. Mines also became <q>treasures
of the state.</q><note place='foot'>Granet, cited, pp. 87-88.</note>
</p>

<p>
The history of these states reads like a page torn out
of the history of early modern Europe. The struggle was
half diplomatic and half military. From the beginning of
the Spring and Autumn period (722-481 B.C.) to the
end of the Age of Warring States (491-221 B.C.), China
was subject to frequent war and unstable peace. The
character of war itself changed, from a chivalrous exercise
almost ritualistic in nature, to a struggle of unrestricted
force. The units of government which were to
develop into states, and almost into nations, began as
feudal overlordships; traditional hatreds and sentiments
were developed; diplomatic and military policies crystallized
and became consistent; and activities of a state nature
became increasingly prominent.
</p>

<p>
Concurrently, other factors operated to prevent an indefinite
continuance of these struggles of proto-national
states and to avoid the appearance of a permanent system
of armed nations such as that which has appeared
in modern Europe. The feudal system of China left a
strong ethnical, linguistic and intellectual heritage of
unity, which was stronger than the cultural disunities and
particularities appearing in certain of the states. (The
state of Chêng was particularly conspicuous in developing
a peculiar state culture.)<note place='foot'>Richard Wilhelm, <hi rend='italic'>Geschichte der chinesischen Philosophie</hi>, Breslau,
1929, p. 19.</note> As the states became larger
and larger with the passing of time, they tended not only
to develop certain large differences between themselves,
but to eradicate the minute local peculiarities of the old
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
system, and in so doing to increase the general homogeneity
which was also a heritage of the past ages. This
general homogeneity found a living symbol in the persons
of the Chou Emperors who, possessed of no more
power than the Tennos under the Shogunate, acted, as
did their Japanese analogues two thousand years later, as
the quasi-religious personifications of the whole general
community. It thus occurred that the old feudal system
was destroyed by the growth of a general non-feudal
economy and political order, which, in its turn, led to
the development of the great imperial system under which
China continued for many centuries. The period of the
transition, during which the traditional feudal unity had
been shaken and the new imperial unity not yet established,
was a tumultuous and bloody one. The presence
of a confederation under the hegemony of some one state&mdash;the
so-called Presidency&mdash;provided a suitable framework
for rivalries toward power, without particularly increasing
the general peace.
</p>

<p>
The transition, as it took place, was neither apparent
nor agreeable. The political turmoil was but slightly less
than the intellectual unrest and disturbance. Everywhere
faith and acceptance seemed to have been lost to humanity;
licentiousness and impiety fed discord. The lack
of harmony, made doubly vivid by the presence of a strong
tradition of primeval Arcadian peace and unity under the
mythological Emperors, was bitter to the scholars and men
of virtue of the time. It was quite inevitable that protests
should be raised which would hasten the advent, or return,
of unity and peace. These protests form the subject
of the work of Confucius and the other great philosophers,
and schools of thinkers, of the Chou dynasty. It
was, in later ages, upon these philosophies that the great
structure of Chinese society developed and continued
down until modern times.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Theory of the Confucian World-Society.</head>

<p>
The various types of protest against the development
of states and the consequent anarchy of the Chinese society
considered as a whole cannot be considered in this
work; many were primarily religious; Taoism, while ranking
as one of the most conspicuous religions of the world,
has little bearing on politics. Even Confucianism, which
merits careful study, must be summarized and re-stated
as briefly as possible. Confucianism has suffered from an
ambiguity and exoticism of terms, when presented to the
West; its full significance as a political philosophy can
become fully apparent only when it is rendered in the
words of the hour.
</p>

<p>
What was it that Confucius did in protest against the
established discord of the world he knew? He struck
directly at the foundations of politics. His criticisms and
remedies can be fully appreciated only by reference to a
theory of ideology.
</p>

<p>
Confucius perceived that the underlying problem of
society was that of ideology; he seems to have realized
that the character of a society itself essentially depends
upon the character of the moral ideas generally prevalent
among the individuals composing it, and that where there
is no common body of ideas a society can scarcely be
said to exist.<note place='foot'>One could therefore say that membership in a society is determined
by the outlook of the individual concerned.</note> He did not consider, as did Han Fei-tzŭ
and the legalist school of philosophers, questions of law
the preëminent social problem. He realized that state
and law were remedies, and that the prime questions of
organization were those anterior to the political, and that
the state existed for the purpose of filling out the shortcomings
of social harmony.<note place='foot'>In modern Western political thought, this doctrine is most clearly
demonstrated in the Marxian thesis of the withering-away of the state.
The Marxists hold that, as the relics of the class struggle are eliminated
from the new society, and classlessness and uniform indoctrination come
to prevail, the necessity for a state&mdash;which they, however, consider an
instrument of class domination&mdash;will decline and the state will atrophy
and disappear.</note>
</p>

<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>

<p>
In a society&mdash;such as Confucius dreamed of&mdash;where
there was no disagreement in outlook, policy would not
be a governmental question; if there were no disharmony
of thought and of behavior, there would be no necessity
of enforcing conformance to the generally accepted criteria
of conduct. From this standpoint, government itself
is socially pathological, a remedy for a poorly ordered
society. Men are controlled indirectly by the examples of
virtue; they do good because they have learned to do
good and do it unquestioningly and simply. Whatever
control is exercised over men is exercised by their ideology,
and if other men desire control they must seek it
through shaping the ideas of others. At its full expression,
such a doctrine would not lead to mere anarchy;
but it would eliminate the political altogether from the
culture of man, replacing it with an educational process.
Ideological control would need to be supplemented by
political only if it failed to cover the total range of social
behavior, and left loopholes for conflict and dispute.
</p>

<p>
This doctrine is framed in quite different terms by
Confucius, who spoke and wrote in an age when the
mystical elements of the old feudal ideology still exercised
powerful and persuasive influence, and when there
was no other society than his own which he might make
the object of his study. The central point of his teachings
is the doctrine of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>. Liang Ch'i-ch'ao, one of the most
brilliant modern exponents of ancient Chinese philosophy,
wrote of this:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
In the simplest terms, <q>Jen</q> means fellow-feeling for one's
kind. Once Fan Chih, one of his disciples, asked Confucius what
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
<q>Jen</q> meant. Confucius replied, <q>To love fellow-men</q>; in other
words this means to have a feeling of sympathy toward mankind....
</p>

<p>
Intellectually the relationship becomes common purpose; emotionally
it takes the form of fellow-feeling.<note place='foot'>Liang Ch'i-ch'ao, <hi rend='italic'>History of Chinese Political Thought during the
early Tsin Period</hi>, translated by L. T. Chen, New York, 1930, p. 38.</note>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
This doctrine appears more specific in its application
when it is realized that Confucius regarded his own society
and mankind as coterminous. Barbarians, haunting
the fringes of the world, were unconscious of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>; not
being in sympathy with mankind, they were not as yet
fully human.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Jên</foreign> is a word which cannot be exactly translated into
English. It is laden with a burden of connotations which
it has acquired through the centuries; its variability of
translation may be shown by the fact that, in the standard
translations of the Chinese classics, it is written <q>Benevolence.</q>
It might equally well be given as <q>consciousness
of one's place and function in society.</q> The man who
followed <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign> was one who was aware of his place in
society, and of his participation in the common endeavors
of mankind.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Jên</foreign>, or society-mindedness, leads to an awareness of
virtue and propriety (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>têh</foreign> and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>yi</foreign>). When virtue and propriety
exist, it is obligatory that men follow them. Behavior
in accordance with virtue and propriety is <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign>. Commonly
translated <q>ethics,</q> this is seen as the fruition of
the force of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign> in human society. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Jên</foreign> underlies and
establishes society, from the existence of which spring
virtue and propriety; these prescribe principles for human
conduct, the formulation of which rules is <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign>.<note place='foot'>Liang Ch'i-ch'ao (cited, p. 48 and following) discusses these points.&mdash;The
author is indebted to Mr. Jên Tai for the explanation of the relation
of these various factors in the Confucian ideology.</note> Auxiliary
to <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign> is <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chêng ming</foreign>. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Chêng ming</foreign> is the rightness of names:
<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign>, the appropriateness of relationships. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Li</foreign>, it may be
noted, is also translated <q>rites</q> or <q>ceremonies</q>; a rendering
which, while not inexact, fails to convey the full
import of the term.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Chêng ming</foreign>, the rectification of names, may be regarded
as a protest against the discords in language that
had developed during the transitional period from feudalism
to eventual unity. Confucius, of course, did not have
as sharp an issue confronting him as do the modern
Western innovators in social and political ideology.
Nevertheless, the linguistic difficulty was clear to him.
The expansion of the Chinese written language was so
great at that time that it led to the indiscriminate coining
of neologisms, and there was a tendency towards a sophisticated
hypocrisy in the use of words.<note place='foot'>Leon Wieger and L. Davrout, <hi rend='italic'>Chinese Characters</hi>, Hsien-hsien,
1927, p. 6.</note>
</p>

<p>
Confucius saw that, in obtaining harmony, language
needed to be exact; otherwise long and fruitless disputes
over empty words might be engaged in or, what was even
worse, words might not conform to the realities of social
life, and might be used as instruments of ill-doing. Confucius
did not, however, present a scheme of word-worship.
He wanted communication to cement society, to be
an instrument of concord. He wanted, in modern terms,
a terminology which by its exactness and suitability would
of itself lead to harmony.<note place='foot'>Hsü, cited above, chapter three, contains an excellent discussion of
the doctrine of rectification.</note> In advocating the rectification
of names, Confucius differed from many other
founders of philosophies and religions; they, too, wanted
names rectified&mdash;terminology reorganized&mdash;to suit their
particular doctrines; but there they stopped short. Confucius
regarded the rectification of names as a continuous
process, one which had to be carried on unceasingly if
communication, for the sake of social harmony, was to
remain just and exact.
</p>

<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Chêng ming</foreign> is highly significant in Confucian thought,
and exhibits the striking difference between the Chinese
and the older Western political study. If the terms by
means of which the communication within a society is
effected, and in which the group beliefs of fact or of
value are to be found, can be the subject of control, there
is opened up a great field of social engineering. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Chêng
ming</foreign> states, in recognizable although archaic terms, the
existence of ideology, and proposes the strengthening of
ideology. In recognizing the group (in his case, mankind)
as dependent upon ideology for group existence,
Confucius delivered Chinese political thought from any
search for an ontology of the <emph>real state</emph>. It became possible
to continue, in the traditional pragmatic manner,<note place='foot'>A stimulating discussion of the pragmatism of early Chinese thought
is to be found in Creel, cited.</note>
thinking of men in simple terms referring only to individual
men, avoiding the hypostatizations common in the
West. In pointing out the necessity for the control of
ideology by men, Confucius anticipated theories of the
<q>pedagogical state</q> by some twenty centuries.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Li</foreign>, in the terminology of the present work, is the conformity
of the individual to the moral ideology, or, stated
in another manner, the control of men by the ideology.<note place='foot'>It must be pointed out in this connection that Confucius advocated
an ideology which would not only be socially useful but scientifically and
morally exact. He did not consider, as have some Western thinkers of
the past century, that the ideology might be a quite amoral instrument of
control, and might contain deliberate or unconscious deception. Hsü
writes, in his <hi rend='italic'>Confucianism</hi>, cited, p. 93, of the various translations of the
word <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign> into English: <q>The word <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign> has no English equivalent. It has
been erroneously translated as <q>rites</q> or <q>propriety</q>. It has been suggested
that the term civilization is its nearest English equivalent; but
<q>civilization</q> is a broader term, without necessarily implying ethical
values, while <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign> is essentially a term implying such values.</q> <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Li</foreign> is civilized
behavior; that is, behavior which is civilized in being in conformance with
the ideology and the values it contains.</note>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Li</foreign>, conformity to the ideology, implies, of course, conformity
to those parts of it which determine value. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Li</foreign>
<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>
prescribes the do-able, the thinkable. In so far as the
ideology consists of valuations, so far do those valuations
determine <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign>. Hsü lists the operations of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign> in six
specific categories:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
(1) it furnishes the principles of political organization; (2) it
furnishes details for the application of the doctrine of ratification;
(3) it discusses the functions of government; (4) it prescribes
the limitations of governmental authority; (5) it advances principles
of social administration; and (6) it provides a foundation
for crime and lawsuits. These are only the political functions
of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign>. Its force is to be regarded as equally effective in every other
type of human behavior.<note place='foot'>Hsü, cited, p. 103.</note>
</quote>

<p>
The approach to society contained in the doctrines of
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>, <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chêng ming</foreign>, and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign> is, therefore, one which largely
eliminates the necessity for politics. Its influence may be
estimated from three points of view: (1) to what degree
was government different from what it might have been
had it followed the line of development that government
did in the West? (2) what was the range of governmental
action in such a system? and (3) what was the
relation of government to the other institutions of a Confucian
society?
</p>

<p>
In regard to the first point, it will be seen immediately
that government, once <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chêng ming</foreign> has been set in motion,
is not a policy-making body. There is no question of
policy, no room for disagreement, no alternative. What
is right is apparent. Politics, in the narrow sense of the
word, ceases to be a function of government; only administration
remains.
</p>

<p>
Secondly, government needs to administer only for two
purposes. The chief of these is the maintenance of the
ideology. Once right views are established, no individual
is entitled to think otherwise. Government must treat the
heterodox as malefactors. Their crime is greater than
ordinary crime, which is a mere violation of right behavior;
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
they pollute right thought, set in motion the forces
of discord, and initiate evils which may work on and on
through the society, even after the evil-thinkers themselves
are dead. To protect the society actively against
discord, the government must encourage the utterance
of the accepted truth. The scholar is thus the highest
of all the social classes; it is he who maintains agreement
and order. The government becomes, in maintaining the
ideology, the educational system. The whole political life
is education, formal or informal. Every act of the leader
is a precept and an example. The ruler does not compel
virtue by law; he spreads it by his conspicuous example.
</p>

<p>
The other function of the government in maintaining
the ideology lies in the necessity of dealing with persons
not affected by the ideology. Barbarians are especially
formidable, since both heretics and criminals may be restored
to the use of their reason, while barbarians may
not, so long as they remain barbarians. Accordingly, the
government is also a defense system. It is a defense
against open and physical disruption from within&mdash;as in
the case of insurrectionaries or bandits&mdash;and a defense
against forces from without which, as veritable powers of
darkness, cannot be taught and are amenable only to brute
force.
</p>

<p>
In connection with the third point, government itself
appears as subject to <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign>. It has no right to do wrong. The
truth is apparent to everyone, and especially to the
scholars. In this wise the Chinese governments were at
the mercy of their subjects. No divine right shielded them
when public opinion condemned them; ill-doing governments
were twice guilty and contemptible, because of the
great force of their examples. An evil emperor was not
only a criminal; he was a heresiarch, leading many astray,
and corrupting the virtue upon which society rested&mdash;virtue
being the maintenance of a true and moral ideology,
and conformity to it.
</p>

<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>

<p>
The consequence of these teachings was such that we
may say, without sacrificing truth to paradox, that the aim
of Chinese government was anarchy&mdash;not in the sense of
disorder, but in the sense of an order so just and so complete
that it needed no governing. The <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>laissez-faire</foreign> of
the Chinese was not only economic; it was political. The
Great Harmony of Confucius, which was his Utopia, was
conceived of as a society where the excellence of ideology
and the thoroughness of conformity to ideology had
brought perfect virtue, perfect happiness.
</p>

<p>
The other doctrines of Confucius, his practical teachings
on statesmanship, his discourses on the family&mdash;these
cannot be entered into here. Enough has, perhaps,
been shown to demonstrate the thoroughness of Confucius'
reaction against state and nation.<note place='foot'>Confucius the individual was quite nationalistically devoted to his
native state of Lu, and, more philosophically, hostile to the barbarians.
Hsü, cited, p. 118.</note> This reaction
was to continue, and to become so typical that the whole
Chinese system of subsequent centuries was called Confucian,<note place='foot'>John K. Shryock, <hi rend='italic'>The Origin and Development of The State Cult of
Confucius</hi>, New York, 1932, traces this growth with great clarity and
superlative scholarship. The work is invaluable as a means to the understanding
of the political and educational structure commonly called
<q>Confucian civilization.</q></note>
until the exigencies of a newer, larger, and more
perilous world led to Sun Yat-sen's teaching of modern
Chinese nationalism. Before taking up the doctrine of
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min tsu</foreign>, it may be worthwhile to summarize the manner
in which Chinese society, deliberately and accidentally,
each in part, followed out the doctrines of Confucius in
its practical organization.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Chinese World-Society of Eastern Asia.</head>

<p>
It would be, of course, absurd to pretend to analyze
the social system of China in a few paragraphs; and yet
<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>
it is necessary to the study of Sun Yat-sen that certain
characteristics be at least mentioned. Several problems
appear which are quite outstanding. What was the social
position and function of each individual? How were refractory
individuals to be disciplined in accordance with
the requirements that the general opinion of society imposed?
What were the ultimate ends which the organization
of Chinese society was to realize? How were the
educational system and the frontier defenses to be maintained?
What was to be the position and power of the
political organization?
</p>

<p>
At the outset it is necessary that a working demarcation
of the political be established. Accepting, by definition,
those coercive controls as political which are operated
for the preservation of society as a whole, and are
recognized within the society as so doing, we see immediately
that the range of the political must have been
much less in old China than it has been in the West.
Western societies tend, at least in law, to emphasize the
relationship between the individual and the society as a
whole; free and unassociated individuals tend to become
extraordinarily unstable. In the old Chinese society the
control of the individual was so much an ideological one,
that political control was infinitely narrower than in the
West. But, in order to effectuate ideological control, there
must be an organization which will permit pressure to be
exercised on the individual in such a compelling manner
that the exercise of external coercion becomes unnecessary.
In a society in which the state has withered away,
after an enormous expansion in the subject-matter of its
control,<note place='foot'>This expansion took place in China in the reign of Ch'in Shih
Huang Ti, who used the state of Ch'in as an instrument by means of
which to destroy the multiple state-system and replace it with a powerful
unitary state for all China. He sought to wipe out the past, raising the
imperial office to a position of real power, and destroying the whole
feudal organization. He abolished tenantry and supplanted it with a
system of small freeholds. Although his immediate successors did much
to restore the forms and appearances of the past, his work was not
altogether undone. Himself hostile to Confucius, his actions implemented
the teachings to an enormous degree. See Granet, cited, pp. 96-104.</note> the totalitarian state is succeeded by the totalitarian
<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>
tradition, if&mdash;and the qualification is an important
one&mdash;the indoctrination has been so effective that the
ideology can maintain itself in the minds of men without
the continuing coercive power of the state to uphold it.
If the ideology is secure, then control of the individual
will devolve upon those persons making up his immediate
social environment, who&mdash;in view of the uniform and secure
notions of right and justice prevailing&mdash;can be relied
upon to attend to him in a manner which will be approved
by the society in general.
</p>

<p>
In China the groups most conspicuous within the society
were the family system, the village and district, and the
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign> (association; league; society, in the everyday sense of
the word).
</p>

<p>
The family was an intricate structure. A fairly typical
instance of family organization within a specific village
has been described in the following terms: <q>The village is
occupied by one sib, a uni-lateral kinship group, exogamous,
monogamous but polygynous, composed of a plurality
of kin alignments into four families: the natural family,
the economic-family, the religious-family, and the sib.</q><note place='foot'>D. H. Kulp, <hi rend='italic'>Family Life in South China</hi>, New York, 1925, p. xxiv.</note>
The natural family corresponded to the family of the West.
The economic family may have had a natural family as its
core, but commonly extended through several degrees of
kinship, and may have included from thirty to one hundred
persons, who formed a single economic unit, living
and consuming collectively. The religious family was an
aggregate of economic families, of which it would be very
difficult to give any specified number as an average. It
<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>
was religious in that it provided the organization for the
proper commemoration and reverence of ancestors, and
maintained an ancestral shrine where the proper genealogical
records could be kept; the cult feature has largely
disappeared in modern times. The sib corresponded
roughly to the clan, found in some Western communities;
its rôle was determined by the immediate environment.
In some cases&mdash;as especially in the south&mdash;the sib was
powerful enough to engage in feuds; at times one or more
sibs dominated whole communities; in the greater part of
China it was a loose organization, holding meetings from
time to time to unite the various local religious families
which constituted it.
</p>

<p>
Family consciousness played its part in sustaining certain
elements of the Confucian ideology. It stressed the
idea of the carnal immortality of the human race; it
oriented the individual, not only philosophically, but
socially as well. The size of each family determined his
position spatially, and family continuity fixed a definite
location in time for him. With its many-handed grasp
upon the individual, the family system held him securely
in place and prevented his aspiring to the arrogant heights
of nobility or falling to the degradation of a slavery in
which he might become a mere commodity. A Chinese
surrounded by his kinsmen was shielded against humiliations
inflicted upon him by outsiders or the menace of his
own potential follies. It was largely through the family
system, with its religious as well as economic and social
foundation, that the Chinese solved the problem of adequate
mobility of individuals in a society stable as a whole,
and gave to that stability a clear and undeniable purpose&mdash;the
continued generation of the human race through the
continuity of a multitude of families, each determined
upon survival.
</p>

<p>
The family was the most obviously significant of the
<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>
groupings within the society, but it was equalled if not
excelled in importance by the village.<note place='foot'>H. G. Creel, cited, p. 10. Creole writes as follows of the significance
of the village: <q>The village life is very important, for it appears to be
the archetype from which the entire Chinese conception of the world and
even of the cosmos grew. The village was, as has been said, small. It
was based on agriculture. It was apparently a community of a peaceful
regularity and a social solidarity beyond anything which we of the
present can imagine.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
Had the family been the only important social grouping,
it might have been impossible for any democracy to develop
in China. It so occurred that the family pattern provided,
indeed, the model for the government, but the importance
of villages in Chinese life negated the too sharp
influence of a familistic government. It would have been
the most awful heresy, as it is in Japan today, to revolt
against and depose an unrighteous father; there was
nothing to prevent the deposition or destruction of an evil
village elder. In times of concord, the Emperor was the
father of the society; at other times, when his rule was
less successful, he was a fellow-villager subject to the
criticism of the people.
</p>

<p>
The village was the largest working unit of non-political
administration; that is to say, groups within and up to the
village were almost completely autonomous and not subject
to interference, except in very rare cases, from outside.
The village was the smallest unit of the political. The
District Magistrate, as the lowest officer in the political-educational
system, was in control of a district containing
from one to twenty villages, and negotiated, in performing
the duties imposed upon him, with the village leaders. The
villages acted as self-ruling communes, at times very
democratic.<note place='foot'>Arthur Smith, one of the few Westerners to live in a Chinese village
for any length of years, wrote: <q>It is a noteworthy fact that the government
of China, while in theory more or less despotic, places no practical
restrictions upon the right of free assemblage by the people for the
consideration of their own affairs. The people of any village can, if they
choose, meet every day of the year. There is no government censor
present, and no restriction upon the liberty of debate. The people can say
what they like, and the local Magistrate neither knows nor cares what
is said.... But should insurrection break out, these popular rights
might be extinguished in a moment, a fact of which all the people are
perfectly well aware.</q> <hi rend='italic'>Village Life in China</hi>, New York, 1899, p. 228.
This was written thirteen years before the fall of the Ch'ing dynasty.</note>
</p>

<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>

<p>
Next in importance, among Chinese social groups, after
the family and the village was the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign>. It was in all
probability the last to appear. Neither ordained, as the
family seemed to be, by the eternal physical and biological
order of things, nor made to seem natural, as was the
village, by the geographic and economic environment, the
association found its justification in the deeply ingrained
propensities of the Chinese to coöperate. Paralleling and
supplementing the former two, the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign> won for itself a
definite and unchallenged place in the Chinese social
structure. The kinds of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign> may be classified into six
categories:<note place='foot'>J. S. Burgess, <hi rend='italic'>The Guilds of Peking</hi>, New York, 1928. This is
perhaps the best work on the subject of the guilds which has yet appeared.
The information was gathered by the students of the author, who as a
teacher had excellent facilities for developing contacts. The students, as
Chinese, were able to gather data from the conservative guild leaders in
a manner and to a degree that no Westerner could have done. The
classification here given is a modification of Burgess'.</note> 1) the fraternal societies; 2) insurance
groups; 3) economic guilds; 4) religious societies; 5)
political societies; and 6) organizations of militia and
vigilantes. The <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign> made up, in their economic form, the
greater part of the economic organization of old China,
and provided the system of vocational education for persons
not destined to literature and administration. Politically,
it was the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign>&mdash;under such names as the Triad and
the Lotus&mdash;that provided the party organizations of old
China and challenged the dynasties whenever objectionable
social or economic conditions developed.
</p>

<p>
The old Chinese society, made up of innumerable families,
<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>
villages, and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign>, comprised a whole <q>known world.</q>
Its strength was like that of a dinosaur in modern fable;
having no one nerve-centre, the world-society could not be
destroyed by inroads of barbarians, or the ravages of
famine, pestilence, and insurrection. The ideology which
has been called Confucian continued. At no one time were
conditions so bad as to break the many threads of Chinese
culture and to release a new generation of persons emancipated
from the tradition. Throughout the centuries education
and government went forward, even though dynasties
fell and the whole country was occasionally over-run
by conquerors. The absence of any juristically rigid
organization permitted the Chinese to maintain a certain
minimum of order, even in the absence of an emperor, or,
as more commonly occurred, in the presence of several.
</p>

<p>
The governmental superstructure cemented the whole
Chinese world together in a formal manner; it did not
create it. The family, the village, and the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign> were fit subjects
for imperial comment, but there was nothing in their
organization to persuade the student that the Emperor&mdash;by
virtue of some Western-type <foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>Kompetenz Kompetenz</foreign>&mdash;could
remove his sanction from their existence and thereby
annihilate them. There was no precarious legal personality
behind the family, the village, and the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign>, which
could be destroyed by a stroke of law. It was possible for
the English kings to destroy the Highland clan of the MacGregor&mdash;<q>the
proscribed name</q>&mdash;without liquidating the
members of the clan <foreign rend='italic'>in toto</foreign>. In China the Emperor beheld
a family as a quasi-individual, and when enraged at them
was prone to wipe them out with massacre. Only in a very
few cases was it possible for him to destroy an organization
without destroying the persons composing it; he
could, for example, remove the privilege of a scholarship
system from a district, prefecture, or province without
necessarily disposing of all the scholars involved in the
<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>
move. The government of China&mdash;which, in the normal
run of affairs, had no questions of policy, because policy
was traditional and inviolable&mdash;continued to be an administration
dedicated to three main ends&mdash;the maintenance
of the ideology (education), the defense of the
society as a whole against barbarians (military affairs)
and against the adverse forces of nature (public works
on the most extensive&mdash;and not intensive&mdash;scale), and
the collection of funds for the fulfillment of the first two
ends (revenue). The Emperor was also the titular family
head of the Chinese world.
</p>

<p>
The educational system was identical with the administrative,
except in the case of the foreign dynasties.
(Under the Manchus, for example, a certain quota of
Manchu officials were assigned throughout the government,
irrespective of their scholastic rank in contrast to
the Chinese.) It was a civil service, an educational structure,
and a ritualist organization. Selected from the people
at large, scholars could&mdash;at least in theory&mdash;proceed
on the basis of sheer merit to any office in the Empire
excepting the Throne. Their advancement was graduated
on a very elaborate scale of degrees, which could be attained
only by the passing of examinations involving an
almost perfect knowledge of the literature of antiquity
and the ability to think in harmony with and reproduce
that literature. The Chinese scholar-official had to learn
to do his own thinking by means of the clichés which
he could learn from the classics; he had to make every
thought and act of his life conform to the pattern of the
ideology. Resourceful men may have found in this a
proper fortification for their originality, as soon as they
were able to cloak it with the expressions of respect;
mediocre persons were helpless beyond the bounds of
what they had learned.
</p>

<p>
The combination of education and administration had
one particular very stabilizing effect upon Chinese society.
<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>
It made literacy and rulership identical. Every educated
man was either a government official or expected to become
one. There was no hostile scholar class, no break
with the tradition. Struggle between scholars generally
took the form of conflicts between cliques and were not
founded&mdash;except in rare instances&mdash;on any cleavage of
ideas. The Throne secured its own position and the continuity
of the ideology through establishing intellectuality
as a government monopoly. The consequences of the educational-administrative
system fostered democratic tendencies
quite as much as they tended to maintain the status
quo. The scholars were all men, and Chinese, owing
allegiance to families and to native districts. In this manner
a form of representation was assured the government
which kept it from losing touch with the people, and
which permitted the people to exercise influence upon the
government in the advancement of any special interests
that could profit by government assistance. The educational
system also served as the substitute for a nobility.
Hereditary class distinctions existed in China on so small
a scale that they amounted to nothing. The way to power
was through the educational hierarchy.<note place='foot'><p>S. Wells Williams, <hi rend='italic'>The Middle Kingdom</hi>, New York, 1895, p. 405.
Dr. Williams, whose work is perhaps the most celebrated single work
on China in the English language, wrote as follows concerning the
nobility under the Ch'ing:
</p>
<p>
<q>The titular nobility of the Empire, as a whole, is a body whose
members are without power, land, wealth, office, or influence, in virtue
of their honors; some of them are more or less hereditary, but the whole
system has been so devised, and the designations so conferred, as to
tickle the vanity of those who receive them, without granting them any
real power. The titles are not derived from landed estates, but the rank
is simply designated in addition to the name....</q> He also pointed out
that, under the Ch'ing, the only hereditary titles of any significance were
<hi rend='italic'>Yen Shing Kung</hi> (for the descendant of Confucius) and <hi rend='italic'>Hai Ching Kung</hi>
(for the descendant of Kuo Hsing-hua, the formidable sea adventurer
who drove the Dutch out of Taiwan and made himself master of that
island).</p></note> In a society
<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>
which offered no financial or military short cuts to power,
and which had no powerful nobility to block the way
upward, the educational system provided an upward channel
of social mobility which was highly important in the
organization of the Chinese world order.
</p>

<p>
The scholars, once they had passed the examinations,
were given either subsistence allowances or posts, according
to the rank which they had secured in the tests. (This
was, of course, the theory; in actuality bribery and nepotism
played rôles varying with the time and the locality.)
They made up the administration of the civilized world.
They were not only the officials but the literati.
</p>

<p>
It would be impossible even to enumerate the many
posts and types of organization in the administration of
imperial China.<note place='foot'>William Frederick Mayers, <hi rend='italic'>The Chinese Government, A Manual of
Chinese Titles ...</hi>, Shanghai, 1897, devotes one hundred and ninety-five
pages to the enumeration of the Ch'ing titles. His work, intended to be
used as an office manual for foreigners having relations with Chinese
officials, remains extremely useful as a presentation of the administrative
outline of the Chinese government in its last days before the appearance
of Sun Yat-sen and the Kuomintang. Pao Chao Hsieh, <hi rend='italic'>The Government
of China (1644-1911)</hi>, Baltimore, 1925, is a more descriptive work
dealing with the whole administration of the Ch'ing dynasty. No work
has as yet appeared in the West, to the knowledge of the present author,
which describes the historical development of government in China in any
detail.</note> Its most conspicuous features may be
enumerated as follows: China consisted of half a million
cities, towns, villages, and hamlets, each to a large extent
autonomous.<note place='foot'>The figures given are those of the present day, which may be more
or less exact for the past century. For earlier times, the number will
have to be reduced in proportion with the remoteness in time. See
Richard Henry Tawney, <hi rend='italic'>Land and Labour in China</hi>, London, 1932.</note> These were divided among, roughly, two
thousand <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>, in each of which an over-burdened District
Magistrate sought to carry out all the recognized
functions of government in so far as they applied to his
locality. He did this largely by negotiation with the
<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>
leaders of the social groups in his bailiwick, the heads of
families, the elders of villages, the functionaries of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign>.
He was supervised by a variety of travelling prefects and
superintendents, but the next officer above him who possessed
a high degree of independence was the viceroy or
governor&mdash;whichever type happened to rule the province
or group of provinces. Except for their non-hereditability,
these last offices were to all intents and purposes satrapies.
The enormous extent of the Chinese civilized world, the
difficulty of communicating with the capital, the cumbersomeness
of the administrative organization, the rivalry
and unfriendliness between the inhabitants of various
provinces&mdash;all these encouraged independence of a high
degree. If Chinese society was divided into largely autonomous
communes, the Chinese political system was made
up of largely autonomous provinces. Everywhere there
was elasticity.
</p>

<p>
At the top of the whole structure stood the Emperor.
In the mystical doctrines which Confucianism transmitted
from the animism of the feudal ages of China, the Emperor
was the intermediary between the forces of nature
and mankind. The Son of Heaven became the chief
ritualist; in more sophisticated times he was the patron
of civilization to the scholars, and the object of supernatural
veneration to the uneducated. His function was
to provide a constant pattern of propriety. He was to act
as chief of the scholars. To the scholars the ideology was
recognized as an ideology, albeit the most exact one; to
the common people it was an objective reality of thought
and value. As the dictates of reason were not subject to
change, the power and the functions of the Emperor were
delimited; he was not, therefore, responsible to himself
alone. He was responsible to reason, which the people
could enforce when the Emperor failed. Popular intervention
was regarded as <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>de jure</foreign> in proportion to its effectiveness
<foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>de facto</foreign>. The Imperial structure might be called,
<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>
in Western terms, the constitutionalism of common
sense.<note place='foot'>Richard Wilhelm, <hi rend='italic'>Confucius and Confucianism</hi>, cited, pp. 130-132.
The connection between the naming of names and the operation of the
popular check of revolution is made evident by Wilhelm in a brilliant
passage. If a righteous ruler died a violent death at the hands of one
of his subjects, he was murdered; were he unrighteous, he was only
killed. Confucius himself used such terms in his annals. His use of
varying terms, terms carrying condemnation or condonement, even of
such a subject as regicide, electrified the scholars of his day.</note> The Dragon Throne did not enjoy the mysterious
and awful prestige which surrounds the modern Tenno
of Nippon; although sublime in the Confucian theory, it
was, even in the theory, at the mercy of its subjects, who
were themselves the arbiters of reason. There was no
authority higher than reason; and no reason beyond the
reason discovered and made manifest in the ages of
antiquity.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Impact of the West.</head>

<p>
Mere physical shock could not derange the old Chinese
society as easily as it might some other, dependent for its
stability upon complex, fragile political mechanisms.
China was over-run many times by barbarians; the continuity
of its civilization was undisturbed. Each group of
conquerors added to the racial composition of the Chinese,
but contributed little to the culture. The Ch'in, the
Mongols, the Manchus&mdash;all ruled China as Chinese rulers.
</p>

<p>
This strength of the Chinese society&mdash;in contrast to the
Roman&mdash;must not, however, lead us to suppose that there
were any extraordinary virtues in the Chinese social organization
that made Chinese civilization indestructible.
On the contrary, the continued life of the Chinese society
may be ascribed, among others, to four conditions acting
definitely and overwhelmingly in its favor: China's greater
physical extent, homogeneity, wealth, and culture.
</p>

<p>
No barbarian conqueror, with the possible exception of
the Mongol, would have been a match for an orderly and
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
united China. Without exception, the barbarian incursions
occurred in times of social and political disorder and
weakness. That this is no freakish coincidence, may be
shown by the contrast between China and any of the
peripheral realms. None approached China in extent, in
heaviness of population. Conquest of China was always
conquest by sufferance of the Chinese.
</p>

<p>
Second, China's neighbors were divided among themselves.
There was never any coalition extensive enough
to present a genuine threat to a thriving China. The
Chinese, in spite of diversities of spoken language, were
united&mdash;so far as they were literate&mdash;by a common writing
and literature; the common ideology had, moreover, fostered
an extreme sympathy of thought and behavior
among the Chinese. Persons speaking mutually unintelligible
dialects, of different racial composition, and in completely
different economic and geographical environments
displayed&mdash;and, for all that, still display in modern times&mdash;an
uncanny uniformity of social conditioning. China
faced barbarians on many fronts; China was coördinated,
homogeneous; the barbarians of North and South did not,
in all probability, know anything of each other's existence,
except what they heard from the Chinese.
</p>

<p>
Third, China's wealth was a socially fortifying factor.
In all Eastern Asia, no other society or form of social
organization appeared which could produce a higher scale
of living. The Chinese were always materially better off
than their neighbors, with the possible exception of the
Koreans and Japanese.
</p>

<p>
Fourth, Eastern Asia was Chinese just as Europe was
Graeco-Roman. The peripheral societies all owed a great
part, if not all, of their culture to the Chinese. China's
conquerors were already under the spell of Chinese civilization
when they swept down upon it. None of them
were anxious to destroy the heritage of science, arts, and
invention which the Chinese had developed.
</p>

<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>

<p>
With these advantages in mind, it is easy to understand
the peculiarity of the Westerners, as contrasted with the
other peoples whom the Chinese met and fought. The
formidable physical power of the Chinese was, after the
first few decades of intercourse, seen to be quite unequal
to the superior military technique of the West. The
Westerners, although different from one another at home,
tended to appear as united in the Far East. In any case,
Chinese unity availed little in the face of greater military
power. The economic factor, while a great attraction to
the Westerners, was no inducement to them to become
Chinese; they were willing to gain Chinese wealth, and
dreamed of conquering it, but not of making wealth in
the Chinese manner. And lastly, and most importantly,
the Westerners presented a culture of their own which&mdash;after
the first beginnings of regular intercourse&mdash;was quite
well able to hold its own against the Chinese.<note place='foot'>An exception must be made in the case of the first Russian colony
in Peking, which was lost in two centuries and became virtually indistinguishable
from the mass of the population. The Portuguese, at Macao,
displayed that tendency to compromise and miscegenate which marked
their whole progress along the coasts of Asia, but they maintained
their political supremacy in that city; today the Macanese are largely of
Chinese blood, but Portuguese-speaking, and proud of their separateness.</note>
</p>

<p>
To the utter certainty of the Chinese way of life, the
Westerners presented the equally unshakable dogma of
Christianity. They regarded the Chinese&mdash;as did the
Chinese them&mdash;as outlanders on the edge of the known
world. They exhibited, in short, almost the same attitude
toward the Chinese that the Chinese had toward barbarians.
Consequently, each group regarded the other as
perverse. The chief distinction between the Chinese and
the Westerners lay in the fact that the Chinese would in
all probability have been satisfied if the West had minded
its own business, while the West, feverish with expansionism,
cajoled and fought for the right to come, trade,
and teach.<note place='foot'>Too many works have been written on the relations of the Chinese
and Westerners to permit any citations, with one exception. Putnam
Weale's <hi rend='italic'>The Vanished Empire</hi>, New York, 1925, is an extraordinarily
vivid history of the collision of the civilizations. It is not particularly
commendable as a factual record, but as a brilliant and moving piece of
literature presenting the Chinese viewpoint, it is unexcelled.</note>
</p>

<pb n='050'/><anchor id='Pg050'/>

<p>
At times, the two races met on agreeable and equal
terms. The Jesuit missionaries ingratiated themselves with
the Chinese and, by respecting Chinese culture, won a certain
admiration for their own. The eighteenth century in
Europe was the century of <foreign rend='italic'>chinoiserie</foreign>, when Chinese
models exercised a profound influence on the fine and
domestic arts of Europe.<note place='foot'>See Adolf Reichwein, <hi rend='italic'>China and Europe: Intellectual and Artistic
Contacts in the Eighteenth Century</hi>, New York, 1925, which makes
apparent the full extent to which modern Europe is indebted to China for
the luxuries of its culture.</note> The great upsurge of economic
power in the period of the European industrial revolution
led to increased self-assurance on the part of the Europeans.
The new standards of value alienated them from
those features of Chinese culture which the eighteenth
century had begun to appreciate, and placed them in a
position to sell to the Chinese as well as buy. More and
more the economic position of the two societies changed
about; the Westerners had come to purchase the superior
artizan-made goods of China, giving in exchange metals
or raw materials. A tendency now developed for them to
sell their own more cheaply, and, in some cases, better
manufactured products to the Chinese. The era of good
feeling and mutual appreciation, which had never been
very strong, now drew to a close.
</p>

<p>
The vassal states of China were conquered. The British
fought the Chinese on several occasions, and conquered
each time. The full extent of Western military superiority
was revealed in the capture of Peking in 1860, and in the
effectiveness&mdash;entirely disproportionate to their numbers&mdash;that
Western-trained Imperial troops had in suppressing
the Chinese T'ai-p'ing rebels.
</p>

<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>

<p>
When Sun Yat-sen was a boy, the country was afire with
fear and uncertainty. Barbarians who could neither be
absorbed nor defeated had appeared. Instead of adopting
Chinese thought and manners, they were vigorously teaching
their own to the Chinese. The traditional Chinese
mechanisms of defense against barbarians were not working.<note place='foot'>In this connection, it might be pointed out that the attractive strength
of the two civilizations has not, as yet, been adequately studied, although
there is an enormous amount of loose generalization on the subject: <q>The
Chinese are becoming completely Westernized,</q> or <q>The Chinese, in
spite of their veneer, are always Chinese; they will, in the end, absorb
their conquerors.</q> But will they? In the face of a modern educational
and propaganda system, there is at least room for doubt; it is not beyond
all conjecture that the Chinese of Manchuria might be Japanized as
easily as the fiercely chauvinistic Japanese might be sinicized. The only
adequate answer to the question would be through detailed studies of the
social conditioning and preferences of Chinese under foreign influence
(as in Hongkong, Taiwan, Manchuria), and of foreigners under Chinese
influence (the White Russians in China, the few other Westerners in
preëminently Chinese milieux).</note>
Something was vitally wrong. The Chinese could
not be persuaded, as some other non-European peoples
conquered in the age of Western world-dominion seem to
have been, that all error lay with themselves, and that
their own ideology was not worth the saving; nor could
they, in face of the unfortunate facts, still believe that
they themselves were completely right, or, at least, that
their own notions of rightness were completely expedient.
In view of the pragmatic foundations of the whole
Chinese ideology and way of life, the seriousness of these
consequences cannot be over-estimated. Little wonder that
China was disturbed! The pragmatic, realistic method of
organization that the Chinese had had, no longer worked
in a new environment rising, as it were, from the sea.
</p>

<p>
The Western impact, consequently, affected China in
two ways. In the first place, the amorphous Chinese
society was threatened and dictated to by the strong,
clearly organized states of the West. In the second place,
<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>
the introduction of disharmonious values from the West
destroyed, in large part, that appearance of universality,
upon which the effectiveness of the Chinese ideology depended,
and shocked Chinese thought and action until
even their first premises seemed doubtful.
</p>

<p>
This, in short, was the dilemma of the Chinese at the
advent of Sun Yat-sen. His life was to be dedicated to its
solution; it is his analyses that are to be studied in the
explanation of the Chinese society in the modern world.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Continuing Significance of the Background.</head>

<p>
Before proceeding to the exposition of Sun Yat-sen's
theories and programs, it is necessary that a superlatively
important consideration be emphasized: namely, that Sun
Yat-sen was a Chinese, that the nation he worked for was
China, and that the intellectual and social background of
his labors was one completely different from that of the
Euramerican world. A great part of the vaporous disputation
which has hidden Chinese politics in a cloud of
words has been the consequence of the ignoring, by Westernized
Chinese as well as by Westerners, of the monumental
fact that China is in only a few respects comparable
to the West, and that the ideas and methods of
the West lose the greater part of their relevance when
applied to the Chinese milieu. Political dialecticians in
China split Marxian hairs as passionately and sincerely as
though they were in nineteenth-century Germany.<note place='foot'>An example of this is to be found in Manabendra Nath Roy, <hi rend='italic'>Revolution
und Konterrevolution in China</hi>, Berlin, 1930. Roy was one of the
emissaries of the Third International to the Nationalists, and his ineptness
in practical politics assisted materially in the weakening of the Communist
position. His work quite seriously employs all the familiar
clichés of Western class dispute, and analyzes the Chinese situation in
terms that ignore the fact that China is Chinese.</note> Sun
Yat-sen, though accused of this fantastic fault by some of
<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>
his adversaries, was&mdash;as his theories show upon close examination&mdash;much
less influenced by Western thought
than is commonly supposed to be the case, and in applying
Western doctrines to Chinese affairs was apt to look
upon this as a fortunate coincidence, instead of assuming
the universal exactness of recent Western social and
political thought.
</p>

<p>
What are the features of the Chinese background that
must be remembered in order to throw a just light upon
the beliefs of Sun Yat-sen? Primarily, it must have become
apparent, from the foregoing discussion of Confucianism
and the old social order, that China, under the
leadership of Sun Yat-sen, was beginning to draw away
from an order of things which the West&mdash;or at least a
part of the West&mdash;aspires to achieve: a world-society in
which the state had withered away. This ideal, while
never completely realized in China, was perhaps more
closely attained than it has ever been in any other society.
Modern actualities led away from this ideal. The West,
dreaming of world unity, was divided and armed; China
too had to abandon the old notions of universal peace,
and arm. The West, seeking social stability, was mobile;
China too had to move.
</p>

<p>
The old society was in its controls totalitarian. Diffuse
and extensive controls operated fairly evenly throughout
the system. The West possessed a state system which
was fundamentally different. By limiting the range of
law to the reinforcement of certain particular <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>mores</foreign>, the
Westerners were able to obtain a terrific concentration of
political power within the sphere of what they conceived
to be legitimate state control. On the other hand the presence
of a large number of activities not subject to state
control led individuals to cherish their freedom&mdash;a freedom
which in most cases did not impair the military and
political effectiveness of the state in external action.
</p>

<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>

<p>
Since Fascism seeks to reëstablish order and certainty,
as does Communism (although an order and certainty of
a different kind), by the extension of state activities; and
since Sun Yat-sen proposed to improve the political position
of China by developing a modern state (of narrow,
but intense activities in contrast to the loose general controls
of the old society), the drift in China may be regarded,
in this respect, as Fascism in reverse. Beginning
with the same premises&mdash;the regeneration of the nation&mdash;Mussolini
was led to a course of policy diametrically
opposite to that plotted by Sun Yat-sen.
</p>

<p>
Even, however, with his plans for developing a <q>machine
state</q> in a society where states had long since
perished, Sun Yat-sen did not propose to destroy Chinese
morality and non-political discipline for the sake of instituting
a sharp juristic law-and-order organization. He
was anxious that the old Chinese morality and social
knowledge be applied. In this, he differed from most of
the other modern leaders of China, who were for veneering
China with a Parliament and police without delay.
Sun Yat-sen realized that a state was necessary in China,
and hoped to establish one; he also hoped that, beyond
the limits of the new state activity, individualism and disorder
would not come to prevail, but that the old controls
would continue to operate.
</p>

<p>
Accordingly, Sun Yat-sen's thought cannot be studied
as a mere offshoot of recent Western thought. It must
be realized that he proposed two ends which, of all the
countries of the world, would be mutually compatible
only in China: the development of a state, and the full
continuation of non-political controls.<note place='foot'>This same line of attack seems, in the West, to be employed only
by the Catholic church which, while opposing any avowedly collectivistic
totalitarian state, seeks to maintain control on an ideological and not a
political basis, over almost all aspects of the life of its members. No
political party or governing group seems to share this attitude.</note>
</p>

<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>

<p>
In fostering the continuation of ideological control, Sun
Yat-sen hoped to modify the old ideology so that it would
become applicable to the new situations. As will be made
clear later, he was redefining the old world-view so that,
without disturbing the consequences to which it would
lead, it might apply in a novel and unprecedentedly disturbed
world. He was, in short, switching the premises
and trying to preserve the conclusions, modifying the
actual behavior of the Chinese only in so far as it was
necessary for the purpose of strengthening and invigorating
the whole body politic of China.
</p>

<p>
Another strain of the ancient thought penetrates Sun
Yat-sen's theories. Ideological control was not to the
Confucians, as some Marxian critics aver,<note place='foot'>Karl A. Wittfogel, in his <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, cited, as well as Roy, in the
work cited, thinks very little of the justice of Confucianism. The extreme
mobility of Chinese society, which largely precluded the development of
any permanent class rule, is either unknown to them or ignored. If the
ideologue-officials of old China composed a class, they were a class like
no other known, for they provided for the continuous purging of their
own class, and its continuous recruitment from all levels of society&mdash;excepting
that of prostitutes and soldiers.</note> a rather naïve
duplicity by which the gentry of China could maintain
themselves in power indefinitely. Confucius can not be
accused, save on the basis of unwarrantable reading-in, of
insincerity in his teaching of order. He was conservative,
and knew what he was doing, in seeking for the general
self-discipline of men, and the rule of precept and virtue;
but to believe that he desired one public philosophy and
another private one goes beyond the realm of historically
justifiable interpretation. An ideology may, of course, be
deceptive to its promulgators, but the absence of any
genuine class-society&mdash;as known in the West&mdash;must serve
as a testimonial to the sincerity of Confucian teachings.
The Confucian ideology was to the ancients not only an
instrument for good; it was common sense.
</p>

<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen did not, as a Western leader in his position
might have done, seek to befuddle the masses for their
own good. Since he proposed to entrust China's destinies
to the votes of the masses, he could scarcely have believed
them liable to fall victims to deceit over a great length of
time. In teaching of the race-nation, and of the nature of
Chinese society, Sun Yat-sen was telling the people what
it would be good for them to believe; it was good for
them because it was the truth&mdash;that is, most in accord
with the actual situation of China in the general society
of the world.
</p>

<p>
Few today would dare say what is really in the minds
of European leaders such as Stalin, Mussolini, and Hitler.
These men may themselves believe what they say; or, not
believing it, say it nevertheless because they think it the
right thing for the masses, in the masses' own interests, to
believe. Their respective enemies accuse them of saying
what they do in order to mislead the masses and to dominate
the masses for hidden purposes of their own. No
such accusation has been levelled against Sun Yat-sen.
Apart from his personal sincerity, his belief in the qualities
of the common people was such that he did not consider
it necessary to deceive them, even for their own
good.
</p>

<p>
Consequently, in dealing with the various doctrines that
Sun preached, it must be remembered that he himself believed
what he was saying. He did not merely think that
the people should regard the Chinese society as a race-nation;
he thought that China <emph>was</emph> a race-nation. The
modifications of the Confucian philosophy were to be contemplated,
as was the original philosophy, as pragmatically
true.<note place='foot'><p>T'ang Leang-li writes, in <hi rend='italic'>The Inner History of the Chinese Revolution</hi>,
New York, 1930, p. 168, as follows concerning Sun Yat-sen's early
teaching of nationalism:
</p>
<p>
<q>Previous to the Republican Revolution of 1911, the principle of
nationality was known as the principle of racial struggle, and was in
effect little more than <emph>a primitive tribalism rationalized to serve as a
weapon</emph> in the struggle against the Manchu oppressors. It was the
corner-stone of revolutionary theory, and by emphasizing the racial distinction
between the ruling and the oppressed classes, succeeded in uniting
the entire Chinese people against the Manchu dynasty.</q> (Italics mine.)
In speaking of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min ts'u</foreign> as a primitive tribalism which had been rationalized
as a weapon, Dr. T'ang might lead some of his readers to infer that
Sun Yat-sen did not believe what he taught, and that&mdash;as a master-stroke
of practical politics&mdash;he had devised an ideological weapon which, regardless
of its truthfulness, would serve him in his struggles. But, it may
be asked, what was Sun Yat-sen struggling for, if not the union and
preservation of the Chinese people?</p></note>
</p>

<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>

<p>
These two factors must be reckoned with&mdash;that Sun
Yat-sen was teaching and working in the Chinese milieu,
and that his ideology was an ideology not in the older
pejorative sense of the word, which connoted duplicity,
but an ideology in the sense of a scheme of exact knowledge
which, by its very truthfulness, was a political and
social instrument.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter II The Theory of Nationalism.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Emergence of the Chinese Race-Nation.</head>

<p>
It could, at first thought, be supposed that the reconstruction
of Chinese society might have been necessitated
by internal weakness just as much as by a changed environment.
The process of organizing and developing a
tight, clear scheme of political control organizations
within the society (stateification), and delimiting the
extent and aims of the society (nationalism) were the
chief characteristics of this reconstruction.
</p>

<p>
It is only by means of a disregard of actual conditions
that the supposition of an internal weakness so great as
to require radical change can be maintained. While the
latter days of the Manchu Empire represented a decline,
it was a decline no more serious than others through
which Chinese culture had passed and resurged many
times in its history. It is still a debatable matter as to
whether China had actually become intellectually and
artistically sterile during this period. In any event, it is
questionable whether the completely revolutionary reorganization
of Chinese society&mdash;of the type that Sun Yat-sen
found it necessary to support&mdash;would have been either
worth-while or probable in the absence of Euramerican
aggression, and the appearance, all about China, of a new,
hostile, and unstable environment. If it had not been for
the impact of the West it is conceivable&mdash;although all
comment on this must remain mere speculation&mdash;that a
social revolution such as those which occurred under
Wang Mang (usurper-founder of the unrecognized Hsin
Dynasty, 9-25 A.D.), Wang An-shih (prime minister,
1069-1076 A.D., under the Sung dynasty), or Hung Hsiu-ch'üan
(founder of the rebel T'ai P'ing dynasty, 1849-1865),
<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>
might have adjusted matters by a general redistribution
of wealth and administrative reorganization.
</p>

<p>
In his earliest agitations Sun Yat-sen was opposed to
the Manchus.<note place='foot'>See sections, below, on the programs of nationalism.</note> In this connection he developed a peculiar
and interesting theory concerning nationalism. He held,
briefly, that the Chinese had, at the noon-day glory of their
Empire, fallen under the lure of a cosmopolitanism which
was not in accord with the realities of political existence.
It was this lack of distinction between themselves and outsiders
which had permitted hundreds of millions of Chinese
to fall prey to one hundred thousand Manchus in the
early seventeenth century,<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, p. 131. Sun Yat-sen said: <q>Formerly China too
entertained the ambition of becoming mistress of the whole world and of
rising above all other countries; so she (too) advocated cosmopolitanism....
When the Manchus entered the Great Wall, they were very few;
they numbered 100,000 men. How were those 100,000 men able to subject
hundreds of millions of others? Because the majority of Chinese at
that time favored cosmopolitanism and said nothing about nationalism.</q></note> with the consequence that the
Manchus, once on the throne of China, made every effort
to erase their barbarian origin from the minds of the
Chinese, and, with this end in view, did everything possible,
as modern Japan is doing in Korea, to destroy the
national consciousness of the Chinese.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, pp. 126 ff.</note> China, to Sun Yat-sen,
had always been a nation, but its inhabitants did not
believe it a nation. They had lost the precious treasure of
nationalism. Without contradicting Sun Yat-sen, but differing
from him only in the use of words, Westerners
might say that the Chinese had once known nationalism
as members of the antique Chinese states, but had later
formed&mdash;in the place of a nation&mdash;a cosmopolitan society
which comprehended the civilized world of Eastern Asia.<note place='foot'>It seems to the present writer that, whatever criteria are selected for
the determination of the nationhood of a given society, <emph>uniqueness</emph> certainly
is <emph>not</emph> one of the qualities attributed to a <q>nation.</q> It is not
appropriate for the author to venture upon any extended search for a
<q>true nation</q>; he might observe, however, that in his own use&mdash;in
contrast to Sun Yat-sen's&mdash;he employs the term in a consciously relative
sense, contrasting it with the old Chinese cosmopolitan society, which
thought itself unique except for certain imitations of itself on the part of
half-civilized barbarians. A <q>nation</q> must signify, among other things,
for the purposes of this work, a society calling itself such and recognizing
the existence of other societies of more or less the same nature. Sun
Yat-sen, on the other hand, regarded a nation as a group of persons as
real as a family group, and consistently spoke of the Chinese nation as
having existed throughout the ages&mdash;even in those times when the Chinese
themselves regarded their own society as the civilized world, and did so
with some show of exactness, if their own viewpoint is taken into
account.</note>
</p>

<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen did not blame Confucius for cosmopolitanism.
There is, indeed, nowhere in his works the
implication that Confucianism was an evil in itself, deserving
destruction; why then did Sun Yat-sen believe
that, even though the old ideology was not invalid for the
organization of China internally, the old world-view had
broken down as an effective instrument for the preservation
of China?
</p>

<p>
First of all, Sun stated, in terms more general than did
the ancients, the necessity of establishing the ideology on
the basis of pragmatism. He stated:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
We cannot say in general that ideas, as ideas, are good or bad.
We must judge whether, when put into practice, they prove useful
to us or not. If they are of practical value to us, they are
good; if they are impractical, they are bad. If they are useful
to the world, they are good; if they are not useful to the world,
they are not good.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 130-131. d'Elia's italics, covering the last
two sentences in the quotation, have been omitted as superfluous. As
an illustration of the difference between the translation of d'Elia and
that of Hsü, the same paragraph might also be cited from the latter
translation. <q>The ethical value of everything is relative and so nothing
in the world is innately good or innately bad. It is determined by circumstances.
A thing that is useful to us is a good thing; otherwise, a bad
thing. Also, a thing that is useful and advantageous to the world is a
good thing; otherwise, a bad thing.</q> Hsü translation, cited, pp. 210-211.
Excepting for occasional purposes of comparison, the translation of
Father d'Elia will be referred to in citing the sixteen lectures on the
<hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>.</note>
</quote>

<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>

<p>
He states, also, that if the Chinese race is to survive,
it must adopt nationalism. <q>... if we now want to save
China, if we wish to see the Chinese race survive forever,
we must preach Nationalism.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 70. The curiously significant use of the
word <q>forever</q> is reminiscent of the teleology of the Chinese family
system, according to which the flesh-and-blood immortality of man, and
the preservation of identity through the survival of descendants, is a true
immortality.</note> Hitherto they had been
no more conscious of race than were the Europeans of the
middle ages. To be sure, they were barbarians, whose
features were strange; but the Chinese were not conscious
of themselves as a racial unity in competition and conflict
with other equal or superior racial unities. The self-consciousness
of the Chinese was a cultural rather than a
racial one, and the juxtaposition that presented itself to
the Chinese mind was between <q>Ourselves of the Central
Realm</q> and <q>You the Outsiders.</q><note place='foot'><foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Wo-men Chung-kuo jen</foreign> and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ni-men wai-kuo jen</foreign>.</note> Sun Yat-sen became
intensely conscious of being a Chinese by race,<note place='foot'>Paul M. Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>The Life and Principles of Sun Chung-shan</hi>,
p. 102. There is here told the anecdote of Sun Yat-sen's first encounter
with race-hatred. At Ewa, Hawaii, in 1880, Sun, then a young lad just
arrived from China, met a Westerner on the road. The Westerner
threatened him, and called him <q>Damn Chinaman!</q> and various other
epithets. When Sun Yat-sen discovered that the man was neither deranged
nor intoxicated, but simply venting his general hatred of all Chinese, he
was so much impressed with the incident that he never forgot it.</note> and so
did many other of his compatriots, by the extraordinary
race-pride of the <emph>White Men</emph> in China. In common with
many others of his generation, Sun Yat-sen turned to race-consciousness
as the name for Chinese solidarity.
</p>

<p>
There is nowhere in his works, so far as the writer
knows, any attempt to find a value higher than the necessity
of perpetuating the Chinese race. Sun Yat-sen was a
Chinese; his followers were Chinese; whatever benefits
they contemplated bestowing upon the world as a whole
were incidental to their work for a powerful and continued
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
China. At various times Sun Yat-sen and his followers
expressed sympathy with the whole world, with
the oppressed of the earth, or with all Asia, but the paramount
drive behind the new movement has been the
defense and reconstruction of China, no longer conceived
of as a core-society maintaining the flower of human
civilization, but regarded as a race abruptly plunged into
the chaos of hostile and greedy nations.
</p>

<p>
Throughout his life, Sun Yat-sen called China a nation.
We may suppose that he never thought that Chinese
society need not necessarily be called a nation, even
in the modern world. What he did do, though, was to
conceive of China as a unique type of nation: a race-nation.
He stated that races could be distinguished by a
study of physical characteristics, occupation, language,
religion and folkways or customs.<note place='foot'>Hsü translation, cited, p. 168; d'Elia translation, cited, p. 68.</note> Dividing the world
first into the usual old-style five primary races (white,
black, yellow, brown, and red), he divides these races
into sub-races in the narrow sense of the term. The Chinese
race, in the narrow sense of the term, is both a race
and a nation. The Anglo-Saxons are divided between
England and America, the Germans between Germany
and Austria, the Latins among the Mediterranean nations,
and so forth; but China is at the same time both the
Chinese race and the Chinese nation. If the Chinese wish
their race to perpetuate itself forever, they must adopt
and follow the doctrine of Nationalism.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 70.</note> Otherwise
China faces the tragedy of being "despoiled as a nation
and extinct as a race."<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 71.</note>
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen felt that China was menaced and oppressed
ethnically, politically and economically. Ethnically, he believed
that the extraordinary population increase of the
<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>
white race within the past few centuries represented a
trend which, if not counterbalanced, would simply result
in the Chinese race being crowded off the earth. Politically
he observed that the Chinese dependencies had been
alienated by the Western powers and Japan; that China
was at the mercy of any military nation that chose to
attack; that it was a temporary deadlock between the conquering
powers rather than any strength of China that
prevented, at least for the time being, the partition of
China and that a diplomatic attack, which could break
the deadlock of the covetous states, would be even more
deadly and drastic than simple military attack.<note place='foot'>Sun Yat-sen said: <q>A scrap of paper, a pen, and a mutual agreement
will be enough for the ruin of China ... in order to wipe her out by
common agreement, it suffices that the diplomats of the different countries
meet somewhere and affix their signatures.... One morning will
suffice to annihilate a nation.</q> d'Elia translation, cited, p. 170.</note>
</p>

<p>
It must be remembered that Sun Yat-sen saw a nation
while the majority of his compatriots still envisioned the
serene, indestructible society of the Confucians. Others
may have realized that the Western impact was more than
a frontier squabble on a grand scale; they may have
thought it to have assumed epic proportions. But Sun
Yat-sen, oppressed by his superior knowledge of the
Western nations, obtained at the cost of considerable sympathy
with them, struggled desperately to make his countrymen
aware of the fact, irrefutable to him, that China
was engaged in a conflict different not only in degree but
in kind from any other in Chinese history. The Great
Central Realm had become simply China. Endangered
and yet supine, it faced the imperative necessity of complete
reconstitution, with the bitter alternative of decay
and extinction&mdash;a race tragedy to be compounded of millions
of individual tragedies. And yet reconstitution could
not be of a kind that would itself be a surrender and
treason to the past; China must fit itself for the modern
<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>
world, and nevertheless be China. This was the dilemma
of the Chinese world-society, suddenly become a nation.
Sun Yat-sen's life and thought were devoted to solving it.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Necessity of Nationalism.</head>

<p>
An abstract theorist might observe that the Chinese,
finding their loose-knit but stable society surrounded by
compact and aggressive nations, might have solved the
question of the perpetuation of Chinese society in the
new environment by one of two expedients: first, by nationalizing,
as it were, their non-national civilization; or
second, by launching themselves into a campaign against
the system of nations as such. The second alternative
does not seem to have occurred to Sun Yat-sen. Though
he never ventured upon any complete race-war theory, he
was nevertheless anxious to maintain the self-sufficient
power of China as it had been until the advent of the
West. In his negotiations with the Communists, for example,
neither he nor they suggested&mdash;as might have
been done in harmony with communist theory&mdash;the fusion
of China and the Soviet Union under a nuclear world
government. We may assume with a fair degree of certainty
that, had a suggestion been made, Sun Yat-sen
would have rejected it with mistrust if not indignation.
He had spent a great part of his life in the West. He
knew, therefore, the incalculable gulf between the civilizations,
and was unwilling to entrust the destinies of China
to persons other than Chinese.<note place='foot'><p>The danger of relying too much on foreign aid can be illustrated by
a reference to Sun-Joffe Manifesto issued in Shanghai, January 26, 1922.
Sun Yat-sen, as the leader of the Chinese Nationalist movement, and Adolf
Joffe, as the Soviet Special Envoy, signed a joint statement, the first
paragraph of which reads as follows:
</p>
<p>
<q>Dr. Sun Yat-sen holds that the Communistic order or even the Soviet
System cannot actually be introduced into China, because there do not
exist here the conditions for the successful establishment of either
Communism or Sovietism. This view is entirely shared by Mr. Joffe who
is further of the opinion that China's paramount and most pressing
problem is to achieve unification and attain full national independence,
and regarding this great task he has assured Dr. Sun Yat-sen that China
has the warmest sympathy of the Russian people and can count on the
support of Russia.</q>
</p>
<p>
See T'ang Leang-li, cited, p. 156.
</p>
<p>
In view of the subsequent Communist attempt, in 1927, to convert
the Nationalist movement into a mere stage in the proletarian conquest
of power in China, in violation of the terms of the understanding upon
which the Communists and the Chinese Nationalists had worked together,
the leaders of the Kuomintang are today as mistrustful of what they
term Communist politico-cultural imperialism as they are of capitalist
politico-economic imperialism. It is curious that the APRA leaders in
Peru have adopted practically the same attitude.</p></note>
</p>

<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>

<p>
Once the possibility of a successful counter-attack upon
the system of nations is discounted, nationalism is seen
as the sole solution to China's difficulties. It must, however,
be understood that, whereas nationalism in the West
implies an intensification of the already definite national
consciousness of the peoples, nationalism in China might
mean only as little as the introduction of such an awareness
of nationality. Nationalism in China might, as a
matter of logic, include the possibility of improved personal
relations between the Chinese and the nationals of
other states since, on the one hand, the Chinese would be
relieved of an intolerable sense of humiliation in the face
of Western power, and, on the other, be disabused of
any archaic notions they might retain concerning themselves
as the sole civilized people of the earth.<note place='foot'>It is necessary to remember that in the four decades before 1925,
during which Sun Yat-sen advocated <emph>nationalism</emph>, the word had not
acquired the ugly connotations that recent events have given it. The
nationalism of Sun Yat-sen was conceived of by him as a pacific and
defensive instrument, for the perpetuation of an independent Chinese
race and civilization. See Paul M. W. Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations with
Sun Yat-sen, 1919-1922</hi>, Book I, ch. 5, <q>Defensive Nationalism,</q> and
ch. 6, <q>Pacific Nationalism,</q> for a further discussion of this phase of
Sun Yat-sen's thought.</note>
</p>

<p>
A brief historical reference may explain the apparent
necessity of nationalism in China. In the nineteenth century
<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>
foreigners in China generally suffered reverses when
they came into conflict with a village, a family, or a guild.
But when they met the government, they were almost
always in a position to bully it. It was commonly of little
or no concern to the people what their government did
to the barbarians; the whole affair was too remote to be
much thought about. We find, for example, that the
British had no trouble in obtaining labor auxiliaries in
Canton to fight with the British troops against the Imperial
government at Peking in 1860; it is quite probable
that these Cantonese, who certainly did not think that
they were renegades, had no anti-dynastic intentions. Chinese
served the foreign enemies of China at various times
as quasi-military constabulary, and served faithfully. Before
the rise of Chinese nationalism it was not beyond possibility
that China would be partitioned into four or five
colonies appurtenant to the various great powers and that
the Chinese in each separate colony, if considerately and
tactfully treated, would have become quite loyal to their
respective foreign masters. The menace of such possibilities
made the need of Chinese nationalism very real to
Sun Yat-sen; the passing of time may serve further to
vindicate his judgment.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's nationalism, though most vividly clear
when considered as a practical expedient of social engineering,
may also be regarded more philosophically as a
derivation of, or at least having an affinity with, certain
older ideas of the Chinese. Confucian thinking, as re-expressed
in Western terms, implants in the individual a
sense of his responsibility to all humanity, united in space
and time. Confucianism stressed the solidarity of humanity,
continuous, immortal, bound together by the
closest conceivable ties&mdash;blood relationships. Sun Yat-sen's
nationalism may represent a narrowing of this conception,
and the substitution of the modern Chinese race
<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>
for Confucian humanity. In fairness to Sun Yat-sen it
must, however, be admitted that he liked to think, in
Christian and Confucian terms, of the brotherhood of
man; one of his favorite expressions was <q>under heaven
all men shall work for the common good.</q><note place='foot'><foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>tien sha wei kung.</foreign></note>
</p>

<p>
Nationalism was to Sun Yat-sen the prime condition
of his movement and of his other principles. The Communists
of the West regard every aspect of their lives
significant only in so far as it is instrumental in the class
struggle. Sun Yat-sen, meeting them, was willing to use
the term <q>class struggle</q> as an instrument for Chinese
nationalism. He thought of China, of the vital and immediate
necessity of defending and strengthening China, and
sacrificed everything to the effectuation of a genuine nationalism.
To him only nationalism could tighten, organize,
and clarify the Chinese social system so that
China, whatever it was to be, might not be lost.
</p>

<p>
The early philosophers of China, looking upon a unicultural
world, saw social organization as the supreme
criterion of civilization and humanity. Sun Yat-sen, in a
world of many mutually incomprehensible and hostile
cultures saw nationalism (in the sense of race solidarity)
as the supreme condition for the survival of the race-nation
China. Democracy and social welfare were necessary
to the stability and effectiveness of this nationalism, but
the preservation and continuation of the race-nation was
always to remain the prime desideratum.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Return to the Old Morality.</head>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen quite unequivocally stated the necessity for
establishing a new Nationalist ideology in order to effectuate
the purposes of China's regeneration. He spoke of the
two steps of ideological reconstitution and political reconstitution
<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>
as follows: <q>In order today to restore our
national standing we must, first of all, revive the national
spirit. But in order to revive the national spirit, we must
fulfill two conditions. First, we must realize that we are
at present in a very critical situation. Second ... we must
unite ... and form a large national association.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 184. A reference to clan organization,
to be discussed later, has been deleted.</note> He
evidently regarded the ideological reconstitution as anterior
to the political, although he adjusted the common
development of the two quite detailedly in his doctrine of
tutelage.
</p>

<p>
He proposed three ideological methods for the regeneration
of China, which might again make the Chinese the
leading society (nation) of the world. There were: first,
the return to the ancient Chinese morality; second, the
return to the ancient Chinese learning; and third, the
adoption of Western science.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 181 (summary of the sixth lecture on
nationalism).</note>
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's never-shaken belief in the applicability of
the ancient Chinese ethical system, and in the wisdom of
old China in social organization, is such that of itself it
prevents his being regarded as a mere imitator of the
West, a barbarized Chinese returning to barbarize his
countrymen. His devotion to Confucianism was so great
that Richard Wilhelm, the greatest of German sinologues,
wrote of him: <q>The greatness of Sun Yat-sen rests, therefore,
upon the fact that he has found a living synthesis
between the fundamental principles of Confucianism and
the demands of modern times, a synthesis which, beyond
the borders of China, can again become significant to all
humanity. Sun Yat-sen combined in himself the brazen
consistency of a revolutionary and the great love of
humanity of a renewer. Sun Yat-sen has been the kindest
of all the revolutionaries of mankind. And this kindness
<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>
was taken by him from the heritage of Confucius. Hence
his intellectual work stands as a connecting bridge between
the old and the modern ages. And it will be the salvation
of China, if it determinedly treads that bridge.</q><note place='foot'>Richard Wilhelm's preface to <hi rend='italic'>Die Geistigen Grundlagen des Sun
Yat Senismus</hi> of Tai Chi-tao (The Intellectual Foundations of Sun-Yat-senism),
Berlin, 1931 (henceforth cited as <q>Tai Chi-tao</q>), pp. 8-9;
<q>Die Grösse Sun Yat Sens beruht nun darauf, dass er eine lebendige
Synthese gefunden hat zwischen den Grundprinzipien des Konfuzianismus
and den Anforderungen der neuen Zeit, eine Synthese, die über
die Grenzen Chinas hinaus für die ganze Menschheit noch einmal von
Bedeutung werden kann. Sun Yat Sen vereinigt in sich die eherne
Konsequenz des Revolutionärs und die grosse Menschenliebe des Erneuerers.
Sun Yat Sen ist der gütigste von allen Revolutionären der Menschheit
gewesen. Und diese Güte hat er dem Erbe des Konfuzius entnommen.
So steht sein geistiges Werk da als eine verbindende Brücke swischen der
alten und der neuen Zeit. Und es wird das Heil Chinas sein, wenn es
entschlossen diese Brücke beschreitet.</q></note> And
Tai Chi-tao, one of Sun Yat-sen's most respected followers,
had said: <q>Sun Yat-sen was the only one among all
the revolutionaries who was not an enemy to Confucius;
Sun Yat-sen himself said that his ideas embodied China,
and that they were derived from the ideas of Confucius.</q><note place='foot'>Tai Chi-tao, cited, p. 65.</note>
The invocation of authorities need not be relied upon to
demonstrate the importance of Sun Yat-sen's demand for
ideological reconstruction upon the basis of a return to the
traditional morality; he himself stated his position in his
sixth lecture on nationalism: <q>If we now wish to restore
to our nation its former position, besides uniting all of us
into a national body, we must also first revive our own
ancient morality; when we have achieved that, we can
hope to give back to our nation the position which she
once held.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 186.</note>
</p>

<p>
What are the chief elements of the old morality? These
are: 1) loyalty and filial piety, 2) humanity and charity,
3) faithfulness and justice, and 4) peace. These four,
however, are all expressions of <emph>humanity</emph>, to which <emph>knowledge</emph>
<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>
and <emph>valor</emph> must be joined, and <emph>sincerity</emph> employed in
expressing them.
</p>

<p>
The problem of loyalty was one very difficult to solve.
Under the Empire it was easy enough to consider the
Emperor as the father of the great society, and to teach
loyalty to him. This was easy to grasp, even for the
simplest mind. Sun Yat-sen urged loyalty to the people,
and loyalty to duty, as successors to the loyalty once owed
to the sovereign. He deplored the tendency, which appeared
in Republican times, for the masses to assume that
since there was no more Emperor, there was no more
loyalty; and it has, since the passing of Sun Yat-sen, been
one of the efforts of the Nationalists to build up a tradition
of loyalty to the spirit of Sun Yat-sen as the timeless
and undying leader of modern China.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen was also deeply devoted to filial piety in
China, which was&mdash;in the old philosophy&mdash;simply a manifestation,
in another direction, of the same virtue as
loyalty. He called filial piety indispensable, and was
proud that none of the Western nations had ever approached
the excellence of the Chinese in this virtue.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 187-8. Sun Yat-sen's discussion of the
old morality forms the first part of his lecture on nationalism, pp. 184-194
of the d'Elia translation.</note>
At the time that he said this, Sun Yat-sen was accused of
being a virtual Communist, and of having succumbed to
the lure of Soviet doctrines. It is at least a little strange
that a man supposedly infatuated with Marxism should
praise that most conservative of all virtues: filial piety!
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen then commented on each of the other virtues,
pointing out their excellence in old China, and their
necessity to modern China. In the case of faithfulness, for
example, he cited the traditional reliability of the Chinese
in commercial honor. Concerning justice, he pointed out
that the Chinese political technique was one fundamentally
just; an instance of the application of this was Korea,
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
which was-allowed to enjoy peace and autonomy as a
Chinese vassal state for centuries, and then was destroyed
shortly after becoming a Japanese protectorate. Chinese
faithfulness and justice were obviously superior to that of
the Japanese.
</p>

<p>
In politics the two most important contributions of the
old morality to the Nationalist ideology of Sun Yat-sen
were (1) the doctrine of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>wang tao</foreign>, and (2) the social
interpretation of history.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Wang tao</foreign> is the way of kings&mdash;the way of right as opposed
to <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>pa tao</foreign>, the way of might. It consisted, in the old
ideology, of the course of action of the kingly man, who
ruled in harmony with nature and did not violate the
established proprieties of mankind. Sun Yat-sen's teachings
afford us several applications of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>wang tao</foreign>. In the
first place, a group which has been formed by the forces
of nature is a race; it has been formed according to <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>wang
tao</foreign>. A group which has been organized by brute force is
a state, and is formed by <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>pa tao</foreign>. The Chinese Empire
was built according to <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>wang tao</foreign>; the British Empire by
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>pa tao</foreign>. The former was a natural organization of a
homogeneous race; the latter, a military outrage against
the natural order of mankind.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 66. The translation employs the words.</note>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Wang tao</foreign> is also seen in the relation between China
and her vassal states, a benevolent relationship which
stood in sharp contrast, at times, though not always, to
the methods later to be used by the Europeans in Asia.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 129. In connection with the doctrine of
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>wang tao</foreign>, it may be mentioned that this doctrine has been made the state
philosophy of <q>Manchukuo.</q> See the coronation issue of the <hi rend='italic'>Manchuria
Daily News</hi>, Dairen, March 1, 1934, pp. 71-80, and the <hi rend='italic'>Japan-Manchoukuo
Year Book</hi>, Tokyo, 1934, pp. 634-635. The advocacy of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>wang tao</foreign> in a
state which is a consequence of one of the perfect illustrations of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>pa tao</foreign>
in the modern Far East, is astonishing. Its use does possess significance,
in demonstrating that the shibboleths of ancient virtue are believed by the
Japanese and by <q>Emperor Kang Teh</q> to possess value in contemporary
politics.</note>
<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>
Again, economic development on a basis of the free play
of economic forces was regarded as <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>wang tao</foreign> by Sun Yat-sen,
even though its consequences might be adverse. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Pa
tao</foreign> appeared only when the political was employed to do
violence to the economic.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 528, 529.</note> This doctrine of good and bad
aspects of economic relationships stands in distinct contrast
to the Communist theory. He believed that the
political was frequently employed to bring about unjust
international economic relationships, and extenuated adverse
economic conditions simply because they were the
free result of the operations of a <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>laissez-faire</foreign> economy.
</p>

<p>
Economically, the interpretation of history was, according
to Sun Yat-sen, to be performed through the study of
consumption, and not of the means of production. In
this he was indebted to Maurice William&mdash;at least in
part.<note place='foot'>See below, for discussion of the influence that Henry George, Karl
Marx, and Maurice William had upon the social interpretation of history
so far as economic matters were concerned.</note> The social interpretation of history is, however,
associated not only with economic matters, but with the
ancient Chinese moral system as well. Tai Chi-tao, whose
work has most clearly demonstrated the relationship between
Confucianism and Sunyatsenism, points out in his
diagram of Sun Yat-sen's ethical system that <emph>humanity</emph>
(<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>) was to Sun Yat-sen the key to the interpretation of
history. We have already seen that <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign> is the doctrine of
social consciousness, of awareness of membership in society.<note place='foot'>See <q>The Theory of the Confucian World Society,</q> above.</note>
Sun Yat-sen, according to Tai Chi-tao, regarded
man's development as a social animal, the development
of his humanity, as the key to history. This would include,
of course, among other things, his methods of production
<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>
and of consumption. The distinction between
Sun Yat-sen and the Western Marxian thinkers lies in
the fact that the latter trace their philosophical genealogy
back through the main currents of Western philosophy,
while Sun Yat-sen derives his from Confucius. Nothing
could be further from dialectical materialism than the
socio-ethical interpretation that Sun Yat-sen developed
from the Confucian theories.
</p>

<p>
The rôle played by the old Chinese morality in the
ideology of Sun Yat-sen is, it is apparent, an important
one. First, Sun Yat-sen believed that Chinese nationalism
and the regeneration of the Chinese people had to be
based on the old morality of China, which was superior
to any other morality that the world had known, and
which was among the treasures of the Chinese people.
Second, he believed that, in practical politics as well as
national ideology, the application of the old virtues would
be fruitful in bringing about the development of a strong
China. Third, he derived the idea of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>wang tao</foreign>, the right,
the royal, the natural way, from antiquity. He pointed out
that violence to the established order&mdash;of race, as in the
case of the British Empire, of economics, as in the case of
the political methods of imperialism&mdash;was directly antithetical
to the natural, peaceful way of doing things that
had led to the supreme greatness of China in past ages.
Fourth, he employed the doctrine of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>, of social-consciousness,
which had already been used, by the Confucians,
and formed the cornerstone of their teaching, as
the key to his interpretation. In regard to the individual,
this was, as we have seen, consciousness of social orientation;
with regard to the group, it was the development of
strength and harmony. It has also been translated <hi rend='italic'>humanity</hi>,
which broadly and ethically, carries the value
scheme with which <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign> is connected.
</p>

<p>
Even this heavy indebtedness to Chinese antiquity in
adopting and adapting the morality of the ancients for
<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>
the salvation of their children in the modern world, was
not the total of Sun Yat-sen's political traditionalism. He
also wished to renew the ancient Chinese knowledge,
especially in the fields of social and political science.
Only after these did he desire that Western technics be
introduced.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Return to the Ancient Knowledge.</head>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's doctrine of the return to the ancient
Chinese knowledge may be divided into three parts. First,
he praised the ancient Chinese superiority in the field
of social science, but distinctly stressed the necessity of
Western knowledge in the field of the physical and applied
sciences alone.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 341.</note> Second, he pointed out the many
practical accomplishments of the ancient Chinese knowledge,
and the excellence and versatility of Chinese invention.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 199.</note>
Third, his emphasis upon the development of
talents in the material sciences hints at, although it does
not state, a theory of national wealth based upon labor
capacity.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen said, <q>Besides reviving our ancient Chinese
morality, we must also revive our wisdom and
ability.... If today we want to revive our national spirit,
we must revive not only the morality which is proper to
us, but we must revive also our own knowledge.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 194.</note> He
goes on to say that the peculiar excellence of the ancient
Chinese knowledge lay in the field of political philosophy,
and states that the Chinese political philosophy surpassed
the Western, at least in clearness.
</p>

<p>
He quotes <hi rend='italic'>The Great Learning</hi> for the summation, in
a few words, of the highlights of this ancient Chinese
social knowledge: <q>Investigate into things, attain the
<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>
utmost knowledge, make the thoughts sincere, rectify the
heart, cultivate the person, regulate the family, govern
the country rightly, pacify the world.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 194. The original quotation, in Chinese
and in English, may be found in James Legge, translator, <hi rend='italic'>The Four Books</hi>,
Shanghai, 1930, p. 313.</note> This is, as we
have seen, what may be called the Confucian doctrine of
ideological control. Sun Yat-sen lavished praise upon it.
<q>Such a theory, so detailed, minute, and progressive, was
neither discovered nor spoken of by any foreign political
philosopher. It is a peculiar intellectual treasure pertaining
to our political philosophy, which we must preserve.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 194-195.</note>
The endorsement is doubly significant. In the
first place, it demonstrates the fact that Sun Yat-sen
thought of himself as a rebuilder and not as a destroyer
of the ancient Chinese culture, and the traditional
methods of organization and control. In the second place,
it points out that his Chinese background was most clear
to him, and that he was in his own mind the transmitter
of the Chinese heritage.
</p>

<p>
In speaking of Chinese excellence in the field of the
social science, Sun Yat-sen did not confine his discussion
to any one time. Whenever he referred to a political
theory, he mentioned its Chinese origin if it were one of
those known to Chinese antiquity: anarchism, communism,
democracy. He never attacked Chinese intellectual
knowledge for being what it was, but only for what it
omitted: physical science.<note place='foot'>Judge Paul Linebarger, in <hi rend='italic'>Conversations with Sun Yat-sen</hi> (unpublished),
states that Sun said to him: <q>China will go down in history
as the greatest literary civilization the world has ever known, or ever
will know, but what good does this deep literary knowledge do us if
we cannot combine it with the modernity of Western science?</q> p. 64,
Book Four.</note> He was undoubtedly more
conservative than many of his contemporaries, who were
actually hostile to the inheritance.
</p>

<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>

<p>
The summary of Sun Yat-sen's beliefs and position in
respect to the ancient intellectual knowledge is so well
given by Tai Chi-tao that any other statement would
almost have to verge on paraphrase. Tai Chi-tao wrote:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Sun Yat-sen (in his teachings) completely includes the true
ideas of China as they recur again and again from Yao and
Shun, Confucius and Mencius. It will be clear to us, therefore,
that Sun Yat-sen is the renewal of Chinese moral culture, unbroken
for two thousand years ... we can see that Sun Yat-sen
was convinced of the truth of his own words, and at the same
time we can also recognize that his national revolution was based
upon the re-awakening of Chinese culture. He wanted to call
the creative power of China to life again, and to make the value
of Chinese culture useful to the whole world, and in that way
to realize cosmopolitanism.<note place='foot'>Tai Chi-tao, cited, p. 62. The passage reads in full: <q>Sun Yat-sen
umfasst vollkommen die wahren Gedanken Chinas, wie sie bei Yau und
Schun und auch bei Kung Dsï und Mong Dsï wiederfinden. Dadurch
wird uns klar, dass Sun Yat Sen der Erneuerer der seit 2000 Jahre
ununterbrochenen chinesischen sittlichen Kultur ist. Im vergangenen Jahr
hat ein russischer Revolutionär an Sun Yat Sen die folgende Frage
gerichtet: <q>Welche Grundlage haben Ihre Revolutionsgedanken?</q> Sun
Yat Sen hat darauf geantwortet: <q>In China hat es ein sittlichen
Gedanken gegeben, der von Yau, Schun, Yü, Tang, Wen Wang, Wu
Wang, Dschou Gung his zu Kung Dsï getragen worden ist; seither ist
er ununterbrochen, ich habe wieder an ihn angeknüpft und versacht, ihn
weiter zu entwickeln.</q> Der Fragende hat dies nicht verstehen können und
sich weiter erkundigt; Sun Yat Sen hat noch mehrmals versucht, ihm
seine Antwort zu erklären. Aus dieser Unterredung können wir ersehen,
dass Sun Yat Sen von seine Gedanken überzeugt war, gleichzeitig können
wir ersehen, dass seine Nationalrevolution auf dem Widererwachen der
chinesischen Kultur beruht. Er hat die schöpferische Kraft Chinas wieder
ins Leben rufen und den Wert der chinesischen Kultur fur die ganze
Welt nutzbar machen wollen, um somit den Universalismus verwirklichen
zu können.</q> Allowance will have to be made, as it should always in the
case of Tai Chi-tao, for the author's deep appreciation of and consequent
devotion to the virtues of Chinese culture. Other disciples of Sun Yat-sen
wrote in a quite different vein. The present author inclines to the
opinion, however, that Tai Chi-tao's summary is a just rendition of Sun
Yat-sen's attitude. Sun Yat-sen loved and fought for the struggling
masses of China, whose misery was always before his pitying eyes; he
also fought for the accomplishments of Chinese civilization. In modern
China, many leaders have fought for the culture, and forgotten the masses
(men such as Ku Hung-ming were typical); others loved the populace
and forgot the culture. It was one of the elements of Sun Yat-sen's greatness
that he was able to remember both.</note>
</quote>

<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>

<p>
Accordingly, Sun Yat-sen's doctrines may not only be regarded
as having been based upon the tacit premises of
the Chinese intellectual milieu, but as having been incorporated
in them as supports. Sun Yat-sen's theories were,
therefore, consciously as well as unconsciously Chinese.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen was proud of the accomplishment of the
Chinese in physical and applied knowledge. He praised
Chinese craftsmanship and skill, and extolled the talents
of the people which had invented the mariner's compass,
printing, porcelain, gunpowder, tea, silks, arches, and
suspension bridges.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 199-202.</note> He urged the revival of the talents
of the Chinese, and the return of material development.
This teaching, in conjunction with his advocacy of Western
knowledge, leads to another suggestive point.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen pointed out that <emph>wealth</emph> was to the modern
Chinese what <emph>liberty</emph> was to the Europeans of the
eighteenth century&mdash;the supreme condition of further
progress.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 259.</note> The way to progress and wealth was through
social reorganization, and through the use of the capacities
of the people. It may be inferred, although it cannot be
stated positively, that Sun Yat-sen measured wealth not
merely in metals or commodities, but in the productive
capacities of the country, which, as they depend upon the
labor skill of the workers, are in the last analysis cultural
and psychological rather than exclusively physical in
nature.<note place='foot'>This idea, of wealth as national capacity to produce, is of course not
a new one. It is found in the writings of Alexander Hamilton, among
others.</note>
</p>

<p>
China, following the ancient morality, conscious of its
<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>
intellectual and social heritage, and of its latent practical
talents, needed only one more lesson to learn: the need
of Western science.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Western Physical Science in the New Ideology.</head>

<p>
The third element of the nationalist ideology proposed
by Sun Yat-sen was the introduction of Western science.
It is upon this that his break with the past arose; it is this
that gives his ideology its partially revolutionary character,
for the ideology was, as we have seen, strongly reconstitutional
in two of its elements. Sun Yat-sen was, however,
willing to tear down if he could rebuild, and rebuild
with the addition of Western science. These questions immediately
arise: why did he wish to add Western science
to the intellectual background of modern China? what,
in Western science, did he wish to add? to what degree
did he wish Western science to play its rôle in the development
of a new ideology for China?
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen did not have to teach the addition of Western
science to the Chinese ideology. In his own lifetime
the terrific swing from arrogant self-assurance to abject
imitativeness had taken place. Sun Yat-sen said that the
Boxer Rebellion was the last surge of the old Chinese nationalism,
<q>But the war of 1900 was the last manifestation
of self-confidence thoughts and self-confidence power
on the part of the Chinese to oppose the new civilization
of Europe and of America.... They understood that
the civilization of Europe and of America was really much
superior to the ancient civilization of China.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 337.</note> He added
that this superiority was naturally evident in the matter of
armaments. This illustrates both consequences of the impact
of the West&mdash;the endangered position of the Chinese
society, and the consequent instability of the Chinese
ideology.
</p>

<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen did not regard the introduction of Western
science into Chinese life as merely remedial in nature, but,
on the contrary, saw much benefit in it. This was especially
clear to him as a physician; his training led him to
see the abominable practices of many of the Chinese in
matters of diet and hygiene.<note place='foot'>Wei Yung, translator, <hi rend='italic'>The Cult of Dr. Sun, Sun Wên Hsüeh Shê</hi>,
cited. See the discussion on dietetics, pp. 3-9.</note> He made a sweeping claim
of Western superiority, which is at the same time a sharp
limitation of it in fields which the conservative European
would be likely to think of as foremost&mdash;politics, ethics,
religion. <q>Besides the matter of armaments, the means of
communication ... are far superior.... Moreover, in
everything else that relates to machinery or daily human
labor, in methods of agriculture, of industry, and of commerce,
all (foreign) methods by far surpass those of
China.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 337.</note>
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen pointed out the fact that while manuals of
warfare become obsolete in a very few years in the West,
political ideas and institutions do not. He cited the continuance
of the same pattern of government in the United
States, and the lasting authority of the <hi rend='italic'>Republic</hi> of Plato,
as examples of the stagnation of the Western social
sciences as contrasted with physical sciences. Already prepossessed
in favor of the Chinese knowledge and morality
in non-technical matters, he did not demand the introduction
of Western social methods as well. He had lived
long enough in the West to lose some of the West-worship
that characterized so many Chinese and Japanese of
his generation. He was willing, even anxious, that the
experimental method, by itself, be introduced into Chinese
thought in all fields,<note place='foot'>Wei Yung's translation, cited, is an English version of <hi rend='italic'>The Outline
of Psychological Reconstruction</hi> of Sun Yat-sen. This work is devoted to
a refutation of the thesis, first propounded by Wang Yang-ming (ca.
1472-1528), that knowledge is easy and action difficult. In a society
where the ideology had been stabilized for almost two millenia, this
was undoubtedly quite true. In modern China, however, faced with the
terrific problem of again settling the problem of an adequate ideology, the
reverse was true: knowledge was difficult, and action easy. This was one
of the favorite aphorisms of Sun Yat-sen, and he devoted much time,
effort, and thought to making it plain to his countrymen. The comparative
points of view of Wang Yang-ming and Sun Yat-sen afford
a quite clear-cut example of the contrast between an established and
unsettled ideology.</note> but not particularly impressed with
the general superiority of Western social thought.
</p>

<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's own exposition of the reasons for his desiring
to limit the rôle played by Western science in China
is quite clear.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 336-345. This discussion occurs in the
fifth lecture on democracy, incidental to Sun Yat-sen's explaining the
failure of the parliamentary Republic in Peking, and the general inapplicability
of Western ideas of democracy to China.</note> In the first place, Sun Yat-sen was vigorously
in favor of adopting the experimental method in attaining
knowledge. He stood firmly for the pragmatic
foundation of knowledge, and for the exercise of the
greatest care and most strenuous effort in discovering it.
Secondly, he believed in taking over the physical knowledge
of the Westerners, although&mdash;in his emphasis on
Chinese talent&mdash;he by no means believed that Western
physical knowledge would displace that of the Chinese
altogether. <q>We can safely imitate the material civilization
of Europe and of America; we may follow it blindly,
and if we introduce it in China, it will make good headway.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 344.</note>
Thirdly, he believed that the social science of the
West, and especially its political philosophy, might lead
the Chinese into gross error, since it was derived from a
quite different ideology, and not relevant to Chinese conditions.
<q>It would be a gross error on our part, if, disregarding
our own Chinese customs and human sentiments,
we were to try to force upon (our people) a foreign type
of social government just as we copy a foreign make of
<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>
machinery.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 344.</note> Fourthly, even apart from the difference
between China and the West which invalidated Western
social science in China, he did not believe that the West
had attained to anything like the same certainty in social
science that it had in physical science.<note place='foot'>It might again be pointed out that Sun Yat-sen differed with
Marxism which, while it, of course, does not hold that all knowledge is
already found, certainly keeps its own first premises beyond all dispute,
and its own interpretations sacrosanct. The dialectics of Marx and Hegel
would certainly appear peculiar in the Chinese environment. Without
going out of his way to point out the difference between Sun's Nationalism
and Marxism-Leninism, the author cannot refrain&mdash;in view of the
quite popular misconception that Sun Yat-sen was at one time almost a
Marxist convert&mdash;from pointing out the extreme difference between the
premises, the methods, and the conclusions of the two philosophies.</note> Fifthly, Sun Yat-sen
believed that the Chinese should profit by observing
the experiments and theories of the West in regard to
social organization, without necessarily following them.
</p>

<p>
The great break between Sun Yat-sen's acceptance of
Western physical science and his rejection of Western
social science is demonstrated by his belief that government
is psychological in its foundations. <q>Laws of human
government also constitute an abstract piece of machinery&mdash;for
that reason we speak of the machinery of
an organized government&mdash;but a material piece of machinery
is based on nature, whereas the immaterial machinery
of government is based on psychology.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 344.</note> Sun
Yat-sen pointed out, although in different words, that
government was based upon the ideology and that the
ideology of a society was an element in the last analysis
psychological, however much it might be conditioned by
the material environment.
</p>

<p>
Of these three elements&mdash;Chinese morality, Chinese
social and political knowledge, and Western physical
science&mdash;the new ideology for the modern Chinese society
<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>
was to be formed. What the immediate and the
ultimate forms of that society were to be, remains to be
studied.
</p>

</div>


<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Consequences of the Nationalist Ideology.</head>

<p>
What are the consequences of this Nationalistic ideology?
What sort of society did Sun Yat-sen envision?
How much of it was to be Chinese, and how much Western?
Were the Chinese, like some modern Japanese, to
take pride in being simultaneously the most Eastern of
Eastern nations and the most Western of Western or
were they to seek to remain fundamentally what their ancestors
had been for uncounted centuries?
</p>

<p>
In the first place, Sun Yat-sen's proposed ideology was,
as we have seen, to be composed of four elements. First,
the essential core of the old ideology, to which the three
necessary revivifying elements were to be added. This
vast unmentioned foundation is highly significant to the
assessment of the nature of the new Chinese ideology.
(It is quite apparent that Sun Yat-sen never dreamed, as
did the Russians, of overthrowing the <emph>entire</emph> traditional
order of things. His three modifications were to be added
to the existing Chinese civilization.) Second, he wished
to revive the old morality. Third, he desired to restore the
ancient knowledge and skill of the Chinese to their full
creative energy. Fourth, he desired to add Western
science. The full significance of this must be realized in a
consideration of Chinese nationalism. Sun Yat-sen did
not, like the Meiji Emperor, desire to add the whole front
of Western culture; he was even further from emulating
the Russians in a destruction of the existing order and the
development of an entirely new system. His energies were
directed to the purification and reconstitution of the Chinese
ideology by the strengthening of its own latent moral
and intellectual values, and by the innovation of Western
<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>
physical science and the experimental method. Of the
range of the ideology, of the indescribably complex intellectual
conditionings in which the many activities of the
Chinese in their own civilization were carried on, Sun Yat-sen
proposed to modify only those which could be improved
by a reaction to the excellencies of Chinese antiquity,
or benefited by the influence of Western science.
Sun Yat-sen was, as Wilhelm states, both a revolutionary
and a reconstitutionary. He was reconstitutionary in the
ideology which he proposed, and a revolutionary by virtue
of the political methods which he was willing to sanction
and employ in carrying the ideology into the minds
of the Chinese populace.
</p>

<p>
In the second place, Sun Yat-sen proposed to modify
the old ideology not only with respect to content but also
with regard to method of development. The Confucians
had, as we have seen, provided for the continual modification
and rectification of the ideology by means of the
doctrine of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chêng ming</foreign>. It is a matter of dispute as to
what degree that doctrine constituted a scientific method
for propagating knowledge.<note place='foot'>Hsü, <hi rend='italic'>Confucianism</hi>, cited, contains two chapters relevant to the consideration
of this problem. Ch. III, <q>The Doctrine of Rectification</q>
(pp. 43-61), and Ch. XI, <q>Social Evolution</q> (pp. 219-232), discuss
rectification and ideological development within the Confucian ideology.</note> Whatever the method of
the ancients, Sun Yat-sen proposed to modify it in three
steps: the acknowledgment of the pragmatic foundations
of social ideas, the recognition of the necessity for knowledge
before action, and the introduction of the experimental
method. His pragmatic position shows no particular indication
of having been derived from any specific source;
it was a common enough tendency in old Chinese thought,
from the beginning; in advocating it, Sun Yat-sen may
have been revolutionary only in his championing of an
idea which he may well have had since early childhood.
His stress upon the necessity of ideological clarity as antecedent
<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>
to revolutionary or any other kind of action is
negatively derived from Wang Yang-ming, whose statement
of the converse Sun Yat-sen was wont to attack.
The belief in the experimental method is clearly enough
the result of his Western scientific training&mdash;possibly in
so direct a fashion as the personal influence of one of his
instructors, Dr. James Cantlie, later Sir James Cantlie, of
Queen's College, Hongkong. Sun Yat-sen was a physician;
his degree <emph>Dr.</emph> was a medical and not an academic
one; and there is no reason to overlook the influence of
his vocation, a Western one, in estimating the influence
of the Western experimental method.<note place='foot'>As an illustration of Dr. Sun's continued activity as a medical man,
the author begs the reader's tolerance of a short anecdote. In 1920 or
1921, when both Judge Linebarger and Sun Yat-sen were in Shanghai,
and were working together on the book that was to appear as <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen
and the Chinese Republic</hi>, the younger son of Judge Linebarger&mdash;the
brother of the present author&mdash;fell ill with a rather obscure stomach
disorder. The Western physicians having made little or no progress in
the case, Sun Yat-sen intervened with an old Chinese herbal prescription,
which he, a Western-trained physician, was willing to endorse. The
remedy was relatively efficacious&mdash;more so than the suggestions of the
European doctors. Even though Sun Yat-sen very early abandoned his
career of professional medical man for that of revolutionist, he appears
to have practised medicine intermittently throughout his life.</note>
</p>

<p>
The overwhelming preponderance of Chinese elements
in the new ideology proposed by Sun Yat-sen must not
hide the fact that, in so stable an ideology as that of old
China, the modifications which Sun advocated were highly
significant. In method, experimentalism;<note place='foot'>Sun Yat-sen wrote, in Wei Yung translation, cited, p. 115: <q>In
our age of scientific progress the undertaker [sic!], seeks to know first
before undertaking. This is due to the desire to forestall blunders and
accidents so as to ensure efficiency and economy of labor. He who is able
to develop ideas from knowledge, plans from ideas, and action from
plans can be crowned with success in any undertaking irrespective of its
profoundness or the magnitude of labor involved.</q></note> in background,
the whole present body of Western science&mdash;these
were to move China deeply, albeit a China that remained
<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>
Chinese. There is a fundamental difference between
Sun's doctrine of ideological extension (<q>the need
for knowledge</q>) and Confucius' doctrine of ideological
rectification (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chêng ming</foreign>). Confucius advocated the establishment
of a powerful ideology for the purpose of
extending ideological control and thereby of minimizing
the then pernicious effects of the politically active proto-nations
of his time. Sun Yat-sen, reared in a world subject
to ideological control, saw no real necessity for
strengthening it; what he desired was to prepare China
psychologically for the development of a clear-cut conscious
nation and a powerful government as the political
instrument of that nation. In spite of the great Chinese
emphasis which Sun pronounced in his ideology, and in
spite of his many close associations with old Chinese
thought, his governmental principles are in a sense diametrically
opposed to Confucianism. Confucius sought to
establish a totalitarian system of traditional controls which
would perpetuate society and civilization regardless of the
misadventures or inadequacies of government. Sun Yat-sen
was seeking to build a strong liberal protective state
within the framework of an immemorial society which
was largely non-political; his doctrine, which we may call
totalitarianism in reverse, tended to encourage intellectual
freedom rather than any rigid ideological coördination.
The mere fact that Sun Yat-sen trusted the old Chinese
ideology to the ordeal of free criticism is, of course, further
testimony to his belief in the fundamental soundness
of the old intellectual order&mdash;an order which needed revision
and supplementation to guide modern China
through the perils of its destiny.
</p>

<p>
Before passing to a brief consideration of the nature
of the society to be developed through this nationalist
ideology, it may be interesting to note the value-scheme
in the ideology. There was but one value&mdash;the survival
of the Chinese people with their own civilization. All
<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>
other considerations were secondary; all other reforms
were means and not ends. Nationalism, democracy, and
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> were each indispensable, but none was superior
to the supreme desideratum, Chinese survival. That
this survival was a vivid problem to Sun, almost any of
his lectures will testify. Tai Chi-tao, one of the inner circle
of Sun Yat-sen's disciples, summarized the spirit of
this nationalism when he wrote; <q>We are Chinese, and
those things that we have to change first lie in China.
But if all things in China have become worthless, if Chinese
culture no longer has any significance in the cultural
history of the world, if the Chinese people has lost its
power of holding its culture high, we might as well wait
for death with bound hands&mdash;what would be the use of
going on with revolution?</q><note place='foot'>Tai, cited, p. 66: <q>Wir sind Chinesen, und was wir zunächst zu
ändern haben liegt in China. Aber wenn alle Dinge in China wertlos
gewerden sind, wenn die chinesische Kultur in der Kulturgeschichte der
Welt keine Bedeutung mehr hat, und wenn das chinesische Volk die
Kraft, seine Kultur hochzuhalten, verloren hat, dann können wir gleich
mit gebundenen Händen den Tod abwarten; zu welchem Zweck brauchen
wir dann noch Revolution zu treiben!</q></note> Sun Yat-sen made concessions
to cosmopolitanism, which he saw as ideal to be
realized in the remote future. First and last, however, he
was concerned with his own people, the Chinese.
</p>

<p>
What was to be the nature of the society which would
arise from the knowledge and application of the new
ideology? Sun planned to introduce the idea of a race-nation
into the Chinese ideology, to replace the definite
but formless we-you outlook which the Chinese of old
China had had toward outsiders almost indiscriminately.<note place='foot'>An interesting discussion of this attitude is to be found in Li Chi,
<hi rend='italic'>The Formation of the Chinese People</hi>, Cambridge (Massachusetts), 1928.</note>
The old anti-barbarian sentiment had from time to time
in the past been very powerful; Sun Yat-sen called this
nationalism also, not distinguishing it from the new kind
of nationalism which he advocated&mdash;a modern nationalism
<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>
necessarily connoting a plurality of equal nations.
The self-consciousness of the Chinese he wished to restore,
although on a basis of justice and the mutual recognition
by the nations of each other's right to exist. But
this nationalism was not to be a complete break with the
past, for the new China was to continue the traditional
function of old China&mdash;of being the teacher and protectress
of Eastern Asia. It was the duty of China to defend
the oppressed among the nations, and to smite down the
Great Powers in their oppressiveness. We may suppose
that this benevolence of the Chinese race-nation would
benefit the neighbors of China only so long as those neighbors,
quickened themselves by nationalist resurgences, did
not see something sinister in the benevolent manifest destiny
of the Chinese.
</p>

<p>
It was a matter of policy, rather than of ideology, as
to what the Chinese nation was to include. There were
possibilities of a conflict with the Communists over the
question of Outer Mongolia. Physically, Sun saw the
Mongols as one of the five component peoples of the
Great Chung-hua Republic. At another time he suggested
that they might become assimilated. He never urged the
Mongols to separate from China and join the Soviet
Union, or even continue as a completely independent
state.<note place='foot'>See Tsui Shu-chin, cited, pp. 96-146. The work of Tsui is good
for the field covered; his discussion of the contrasting policy of the
Communists and of Sun Yat-sen with respect to nationalities may be
regarded as reliable.</note> There was always the possibility of uncertainty in
the case of persons who were&mdash;by the five principle elements
of race (according to Sun Yat-sen, blood, livelihood,
language, religion, and mores)<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 67 and following.</note>&mdash;members of the
Chinese race-nation but did not consider themselves such.
</p>

<p>
Chinese nationalism was to lead to cosmopolitanism.
Any attempt to foster cosmopolitanism before solving the
<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>
national problem was not only Utopian but perverse. The
weakness of the Chinese had in great part been derived
from their delusions of world-order in a world that was
greater than they imagined, and the true solution to the
Chinese question was to be found, not in any vain theory
for the immediate salvation of the world as a whole, but
in the diligent and patriotic activities of the Chinese in
their own country. China was to help the oppressed nations
of the earth, not the oppressed classes. China was
to help all Asia, and especially the countries which had
depended upon China for protection, and had been failed
in their hour of need by the impotent Manchu Dynasty.
China was, indeed, to seek the coöperation of the whole
world, and the promotion of universal peace. But China
was to do all this only when she was in a position to be
able to do so, and not in the meantime venture forth on
any splendid fantasies which would profit no people.
</p>

<p>
The survival of China was the supreme aim of Sun
Yat-sen. How did he propose that China, once conscious
of itself, should control itself to survive and go onwards
to the liberation and enrichment of mankind? These are
questions that he answered in his ideology of democracy
and of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter III. The Theory of Democracy.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Democracy in the Old World-Society.</head>

<p>
In describing a few of the characteristics of the old
ideology and the old society which may assist the clarification
of the principle of democracy, it may prove useful
to enter into a brief examination of what the word
may mean in the West, to refer to some of the ideas
and institutions of old China that were or were not in
accord with the Western notion of democracy, and,
finally, to see what connection Sun Yat-sen's theory of democracy
may have either with the Western term or with
elements in the Chinese background. Did Sun Yat-sen
propound an entirely new theory as the foundation of his
theory of democracy for the Chinese race-nation, or did he
associate several hitherto unrelated ideas and systems to
make a new whole?
</p>

<p>
The European word <emph>democracy</emph> may, for the purposes
of this examination, be taken to have two parts to its
meaning; first, with regard to the status of individuals in
society; second, with respect to the allocation of political
power in society. In the former sense, democracy may
refer to an equalitarianism of status, or to a social mobility
so easy and so general as to encourage the impression that
position is a consequence of the behavior of the individual,
and a fair gauge to his merit. In the latter part of the
meaning, democracy may refer to the identification of the
governed and the governors, or to the coincidence of the
actions of the governors with the wishes of the governed.
Each of these ideas&mdash;equalitarianism, free mobility, popular
government, and representative government&mdash;has been
referred to as the essence of democracy. One of them
<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>
may lead to the discovery of a significance for democracy
relevant to the scheme of things in the old Chinese
society.
</p>

<p>
Egalitarianism and mobility were both present in old
Chinese society. The Chinese have had neither an hereditary
aristocracy equivalent to the Western, nor a caste-system
resembling that of India or Japan, since the breakdown
of the feudal system twenty-three centuries ago.<note place='foot'>See above, <ref target='Section_Nation_and_State'><q>The Nation and State in Chinese Antiquity.</q></ref></note>
The extra-legal egalitarianism of the Chinese has been so
generally remarked upon by persons familiar with that
nation, that further discussion of it here is superfluous.
Birth has probably counted less in China than it has in
any other country in the world.
</p>

<p>
The egalitarianism of intercourse was a powerful aid
to social mobility. The Chinese never pretended to economic,
political, or intellectual equality; the mere statement
of such a doctrine would have been sufficient refutation
of it to the members of the old society. Yet there
were no gradations of weight beyond educational, political,
and economic distinctions, and the organization of the
old society was such that mobility in these was relatively
free. Movement of an individual either upwards or downwards
in the economic, political, or academic scale was
retarded by the influence of the family, which acted as a
drag either way. Movement was nevertheless continuous
and conspicuous; a proof of this movement is to be found
in the fact that there are really no supremely great families
in China, comparable to the great names of Japan or
of the Euramerican nations. (The closest approximation
to this is the <hi rend='italic'>K'ung</hi> family, the family of Confucius; since
the family is large, its eminence is scarcely more than
nominal and it has no political power.).
</p>

<p>
Mobility in China was fostered by the political arrangements.
The educational-administrative system provided a
<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>
channel upwards and downwards. The government
tended, for the most part, to be the way up, while the
economic system was the way down for prominent official
families. Few families managed to remain eminent for
more than a few generations, and&mdash;with the great size of
families&mdash;there was always room at the top. If a man
were not advancing himself, there was always the possibility
that a kinsman might win preferment, to the economic
and political advantage of the whole family group.
</p>

<p>
Social relations&mdash;in the narrowest sense of the word&mdash;were
characterized by an extreme attention to form as
such, and great contempt for it otherwise. Ritualism never
became a chivalry or a cult of honor. There was always
the emphasis upon propriety and courtesy but, once the
formalities were done with, there was little social distinction
between members of different economic, political,
or academic classes.<note place='foot'>The present state of Western knowledge of the sociology of China
is not sufficient to warrant reference to any authorities for the description
of egalitarianism and mobility. These matters are still on that level of
unspecialized knowledge where every visitor to China may observe for
himself. The bibliography on the social life of the Chinese on pp. 240-242
of Kenneth Scott Latourette, <hi rend='italic'>The Chinese: Their History and Culture</hi>,
New York, 1934, contains some of the leading titles that touch on the
subject. Prof. A. R. Radcliffe-Brown of the University of Chicago informed
the present author that he contemplates the planning of an
extensive program of socio-anthropological field work in Chinese villages
which will assist considerably in the understanding of the sociology of
old China.</note>
</p>

<p>
In connection with control and representation, a great
deal more can be said. In the first place, the relations
between the governing ideologue in the Confucian teachings,<note place='foot'>Hsü, <hi rend='italic'>Confucianism</hi>, cited, p. 49, states the function of the Confucian
leaders quite succinctly: <q>... the Confucian school advocates political
and social reorganization by changing the social mind through political
action.</q></note>
and the governed accepters of the ideology in the
Confucian system were to be discovered through <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>yüeh</foreign>.
</p>

<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Yüeh</foreign>, commonly translated <q>music</q> or <q>harmony,</q>
plays a peculiar rôle in the Confucian teachings. It is
the mass and individual emotional pattern, as <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign> is the
behavior pattern. If the people follow the proper behavior
pattern, their emotional pattern must also be good.
Consequently, the function of a truly excellent ruler was
the scrutiny of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>yüeh</foreign>. If he were a man of superior penetration,
he should be able to feel the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>yüeh</foreign> about him, and
thus discover the temper of the populace, without reference
to electoral machinery or any other government instrumentality.
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Yüeh</foreign> is to be seen in the tone of voices, in
the rhythm of behavior. If it is good, it will act with
increasing effect upon itself. If bad, it serves as a warning
to the authorities. As Prof. Hsü says, <q>For rulers and
administrators <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>yüeh</foreign> has two uses; first, it enables them
to ascertain the general sentiment of the people toward
the government and political life; and second, it cultivates
a type of individual attitude that is most harmonious
with the environment. The joint work of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign> and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>yüeh</foreign>
would produce social harmony and social happiness&mdash;which
is the ultimate aim of the State.</q><note place='foot'>Hsü, cited, p. 104.</note>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Yüeh</foreign> is, however, a peculiar phenomenon, which can
scarcely be called either representation or control. It is an
idea rooted in the curiously pragmatic-mystical world-view
of the Confucians, that same world-view which elevated
virtue almost to the level of a physical substance, subject
to the same sort of laws of disruption or transmission.
Nothing like <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>yüeh</foreign> can be found in Western political
thought; however significant it may have been in China,
any attempt to deal with it in a Western language would
have more than a touch of futility, because of the great
chasm of strangeness that separates the two intellectual
worlds at so many places.
</p>

<p>
A more concrete illustration of the old Chinese ideas of
<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>
popular control may be found in the implications of political
Confucianism, as Hsü renders them:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
From the Confucian doctrine of stewardship, namely, that the
king is an ordinary person selected by God upon his merit to
serve as the steward of God in the control of the affairs of the
people for the welfare of the people, there are deduced five
theories of political democracy. In the first place, the government
must respect public opinion. The will of the people is the
will of God, and thus the king should obey both the will of the
people and the will of God....
</p>

<p>
In the second place, government should be based upon the
consent of the governed....
</p>

<p>
In the third place, the people have a duty as well as a right
to carry on revolution as the last resort in stopping tyranny....
Revolution is regarded as a natural blessing; it guards against
tyranny and promotes the vitality of the people. It is in complete
harmony with natural law.
</p>

<p>
In the fourth place, the government exists for the welfare of
the people.
</p>

<p>
In the fifth place, liberty, equality and equity should be preserved.
The State belong equally to all; and so hereditary
nobility, hereditary monarchy, and despotism are deplored. Confucius
and his disciples seem to advocate a democracy under the
form of an elective monarchy or a constitutional monarchy....
</p>

<p>
Local self-government is recognized in the Confucian system
of government.... The Confucian theory of educational election
suggests the distinctly new idea of representation.<note place='foot'>Hsü, cited, pp. 195-196.</note>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
This summary could scarcely be improved upon although
it represents a considerable latitude of interpretation
in the subject-matter of the classics. The voice of the
people was the voice of God. From other political writers
of antiquity&mdash;Mêng Tzŭ, Mo Ti, Han Fei Tzŭ and the
Legalists, and others&mdash;the Chinese received a variety of
political interpretations, none of which fostered the development
of autocracy as it developed in Europe.
</p>

<pb n='094'/><anchor id='Pg094'/>

<p>
The reason for this is simple. In addition to the eventual
popular control of government, and the necessity for
the close attention of the government to the wishes of the
people, the classical writers, for the most part, did not
emphasize the position of government. With the increasing
ideological solidarity of the Chinese world, the increasing
antiquity and authority of tradition, and the stability
of the social system, the Chinese states withered
away&mdash;never completely, but definitely more so than their
analogues in the West. There appeared, consequently, in
China a form of laissez-faire that surpassed that of Europe
completely in thoroughness. Not only were the economic
functions of the state reduced to a minimum&mdash;so was its
police activity. Old China operated with a government in
reserve, as it were; a government which was nowhere
nearly so important to its subjects as Western governments
commonly are. The government system was one democratic
in that it was rooted in a society without intransigeant
class lines, with a considerable degree of social
mobility for the individual, with the total number of
individuals exercising a terrific and occasionally overwhelming
pressure against the political system. And yet
it was not the governmental system upon which old China
might have based its claim to be a democracy. It could
have, had it so wished, claimed that name because of the
weakness or the absence of government, and the presence
of other social organizations permitting the individual a
considerable amount of latent pressure to exercise upon
his social environment.
</p>

<p>
This arose from the nature of the large non-political
organizations which sustained Chinese civilization even
more than did the educational-administrative authorities.
It is obvious that, in theory, a free and unassociated individual
in a laissez-faire polity would be defenseless
against extra-politically organized persons. The equities
<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>
of modern democracy lie largely in the development of a
check and balance system of pressure groups, affording
each individual adequate means of exercising pressure on
behalf of his various interests. It was this function&mdash;the
development of a just statement of pressure-groups&mdash;which
the old Chinese world-society developed for the
sufficient representation of the individual.
</p>

<p>
There was no illusion of complete personal liberty.
Such a notion was scarcely thinkable. Every individual
had his family, his village, and&mdash;although this was by no
means universally true&mdash;his <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign>, whether one or, less commonly,
several. He was never left solitary and defenseless
against powerfully organized interests. No more intimate
community of interests could be discovered than that of a
family, since the community of interests there would verge
on the total. Ancient Chinese society provided the individual
with mechanisms to make his interests felt and effective,
through the family, the village, and the association.
</p>

<p>
In the West the line of influence runs from the individual,
who feels a want, to the group which assists him
in expressing it, to the government, upon which the group
exercises pressure, in order that the government may use
its power to secure what the first group wants from some
other group. The line runs, as it were, in the following
manner: individual-group-government-group. In China
the group exercised its pressure for the most part directly.
The individual need not incorporate himself in a group to
secure the recognition and fulfillment of his interests; he
was by birth a member of the group, and with the group
was mobile. In a sense old Chinese society was thoroughly
democratic.
</p>

<p>
On the basis of such a background, Sun Yat-sen did not
believe that the Chinese had too much government, but,
rather, too little. He did not cry for liberty; he denounced
its excess instead. On the basis of the old social organization,
which was fluid and yet stable, he sought to create a
<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>
democracy which would pertain to the interests of the
nation as a whole, not to the interests of individuals or
groups. These could go on in the traditional manner. The
qualifications implicit in Sun Yat-sen's championship of
democracy must be kept in mind, and his acquaintance
with the democratic techniques of the old society be allowed
for. Otherwise his advocacy of the recognition of
nationalist rights and his neglect or denunciation of individual
liberties might be taken for the dogma of a lover
of tyranny or dictatorship.
</p>

<p>
Old China possessed a considerable degree of egalitarianism,
of social mobility, of popular control, and of
popular participation, through the civil service, in what
little government there was. In addition, ideological
control ensured a minimum of conflicts of interests and
consequently a maximum facility for self-expression
without conflict with other individuals, groups, or society
as a whole. Finally, the protection and advancement of
individuals' rights and interests were fostered by a system
of group relationships which bound virtually every
individual into a group and left none to fall, solitary, at
the mercy of others who were organized.
</p>

<p>
Why then did Sun Yat-sen advocate democracy? What
were his justifications for it, in a society already so
democratic?
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Five Justifications of a Democratic Ideology.</head>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen, realizing the inescapable necessity of
nationalism, did not immediately turn to democracy as a
necessary instrument for its promotion. He hated the
Manchus on the Dragon Throne&mdash;human symbols of
China's subjugation&mdash;but at first considered replacing
them with a new Chinese dynasty. It was only after he
had found the heirs of the Ming dynasty and the descendants
<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>
of Confucius to be unworthy that he turned to republicanism
and found democracy, with its many virtues.<note place='foot'><p>Mariano Ponce, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat Sen, El fundador de la Republica de China</hi>,
Manila, 1912, p. 23.
</p>
<p>
<q rend='pre'>Y tampoco era posible sustituirla por otra dinastía nacional. Sólo
existen al presente dos familias en China, de donde podían salir los
soberanos: uno es la descendencia de la dinastía Ming, de que usurparon
los mandchüs el trone, hace más de dos siglos y medio, y la otra es la
del filósofo Confucio, cuyo descendiente lineal reconocido es el actual
duque Kung. Ni en una, ni en otra existen vástagos acondicionados
para regir un Estado conforme á los requerimientos de los tiempos
actuales. Hubo de descartarse, pues, de la plataforma de la <q>Joven
China</q> el pensamiento de instalar en el trono á una dinastía nacional.
Y sin dinastía holgaba el trono.</q>
</p>
<p>
<q rend='pre'>No sabemos si aún habiendo en las dos familias mencionados miembros
con condiciones suficientes para ser el Jefe supremo de un Estado
moderno, hubiese prosperado el programa monarquico.</q>
</p>
<p>
<q>Lo que sí pueda decir es que desde los primeros momentos evolucionayon
las ideas de Sun Yat Sen hacia el republicanismo....</q>
</p>
<p>
Ponce then goes on to point out Sun Yat-sen's having said that the
decentralized system of old government and the comparative autonomy of
the vice-regencies presented a background of <q>a sort of aristocratic republic</q>
(<q>une especie de república aristocrática</q>).</p></note>
He early became enamored of the elective system, as
found in the United States, as the only means of obtaining
the best governors.<note place='foot'>Ponce, cited, p. 24. <q>... la única garantía posible, el único medio
por excelencia para obtener los mejores gobernantes....</q></note> In the final stage he had departed
so far from his earlier way of thinking that he criticized
Dr. Goodnow severely for recommending the re-introduction
of a monarchy in China.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen, as a good nationalist, made earnest efforts
to associate his doctrines with those of the sages and to
avoid appearing as a proponent of Western civilization. It
is, consequently, not unusual to discover him citing Confucius
and Mencius on <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>vox populi vox dei</foreign>, and saying,
</p>

<p>
<q>The government of Yao and Shun was monarchical
in name but democratic in practice, and for that reason
Confucius honored these men.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 234.</note>
</p>

<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>

<p>
He considered that democracy was to the sages an
<q>ideal that could not be immediately realized,</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 235.</note> and
therefore implied that modern China, in realizing democracy,
was attaining an ideal cherished by the past. Democracy,
other things apart, was a filial duty. This argument,
while persuasive in Chinese, can scarcely be considered
Sun Yat-sen's most important one in favor of democracy.
</p>

<p>
His most cogent and perhaps most necessary argument
was based on his conception of national liberty as opposed
to the liberty of the individual. He delivered a spirited
denunciation of those foreigners who criticized the Chinese
for being without liberty, and in the next breath
complained that the Chinese had no government, that they
were <q>loose sand.</q> (Another fashionable way of expressing
this idea is by saying that <q>China is a geographical
expression.</q>) He said: <q>If, for instance, the foreigners
say that China is <q>loose sand,</q> what do they finally
mean by that expression? They mean to say that each
individual is free, that everybody is free, that each one
takes the maximum of liberty, and that, as a result, they
are <q>loose sand</q>.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 255.</note> He pointed out that the Chinese had
not suffered from the loose autocracy in the Empire, and
that they had no historical justification for parroting the
cry <q>Liberty!</q> simply because the Westerners, who had
really lacked it, had cried and fought for it. He cited
John Millar's definition of liberty, given in <hi rend='italic'>The Progress
of Science Relative to Law and Government</hi>, 1787: <q>True
liberty consists in this: that the liberty of each individual
is limited by the non-infringement on the liberty of others;
when it invades the liberty of others, it is no longer
liberty.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 266, note 1. Father d'Elia discusses the
reasons which made it seem more probable that Sun was transliterating the
name Millar into Chinese rather than (John Stuart) Mill.</note> Sun Yat-sen had himself defined liberty as
<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>
follows: <q>Liberty consists in being able to move, in
having freedom of action within an organized group.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 256 and following.</note>
China, disorganized, had no problem of individual liberty.
There was, as a matter of fact, too much liberty.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 271.</note> What
the Chinese had to do was to sacrifice some of their individual
liberty for the sake of the organized nation. Here
we find a curious turn of thought of which several other
examples may be found in the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>: Sun Yat-sen
has taken a doctrine which in the West applies to
the individual, and has applied it to the nation. He believes
in liberty; but it is not the liberty of the individual
which is endangered in China. It is the liberty of the
nation&mdash;which has been lost before foreign oppression
and exploitation. Consequently he preaches national and
not individual liberty. Individual liberty must be sacrificed
for the sake of a free nation.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 273.</note> Without discipline
there is no order; without order the nation is weak and
oppressed. The first step to China's redemption is <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
tsu</foreign>, the union (nationalism) of the people. Then comes
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min ch'üan</foreign>, the power of the people. The liberty of the
nation is expressed through the power of the people.
</p>

<p>
How is the power of the people to be exercised? It
is to be exercised by democratic means. To Sun Yat-sen,
the liberty of the nation and the power of the people were
virtually identical. If the Chinese race gained its freedom,
that freedom, exercised in an orderly manner, could mean
only democracy. It is this close association of nationalism
(<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min tsu</foreign>) and democracy (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min ch'üan</foreign>), this consideration
of democracy as the expression of nationalism, that
forms, within the framework of the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>, what
is probably the best nationalist argument for democracy&mdash;best,
that is, in being most coherent with the Three Principles
as a whole.
</p>

<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>

<p>
If the view of democracy just expressed be considered
an exposition of the fundamental necessity of democracy,
the third argument may be termed the dialectical or historical
championship of democracy. Sun Yat-sen believed
in the existence of progress, and considered that there was
an inevitable tendency toward democracy: the overthrow
of the Manchus was a result of the <q>... world tide. That
world current can be compared to the course of the
Yangtze or the Yellow River. The flow of the stream
turns perhaps in many directions, now toward the north,
now toward the south, but in the end flows toward the
east in spite of all obstacles; nothing can stem it. In the
same way the world-tide passes ...; now it has arrived
at democracy, and there is no way to stem it.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 242-243.</note> This
belief in the inevitability as well as the justice of his cause
encouraged Sun, and has lent to his movement&mdash;as his
followers see it&mdash;something of the impressive sweep that
the Communists see in their movement.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen did not devise any elaborate scheme of
dialectical materialism or economic determinism to bolster
his belief in the irreversibility of the flow to democracy.
With infinite simplicity, he presented an exposition
of democracy in space and time. In time, he saw a change
from the rule of force to theocracy, then to monarchy,
and then to democracy; this change was a part of the
progress of mankind, which to him was self-evident and
inevitable.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 223 and following. Dr. Hsü (cited,
p. 263 and following) translates these four epochs as following: <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hung
fang</foreign>, <q>the stage of the great wilderness</q>; <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>shen ch'üan</foreign>, <q>the state of
theocracy</q>; <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chun ch'üan</foreign>, <q>the stage of monarchy</q>; and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min ch'üan</foreign>,
<q>the stage of democracy.</q></note> In space he perceived that increasingly great
numbers of people threw off monarchical rule and turned
to democracy. He hailed the breakdown of the great empires,
Germany and Russia, as evidence of the power of
<pb n='101'/><anchor id='Pg101'/>
democracy. <q>... if we observe (things) from all angles,
we see that the world progresses daily, and we realize that
the present tide has already swept into the age of democracy;
and that no matter how great drawbacks and
failures may be, <emph>democracy will maintain itself in the
world for a long time</emph> (<emph>to come</emph>). For that reason, thirty
years ago, we promoters of the revolution, <emph>resolved that
it was impossible to speak of the greatness of China or to
carry out the revolution without advocating democracy</emph>.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 241-242.</note>
</p>

<p>
A fourth argument in favor of democracy, and one
which cannot be expanded here, since it involves reference
to Sun Yat-sen's practical plans for the political regeneration
of China, was his assertion that democracy was an
adjunct to appropriate and effective public administration.
Sun Yat-sen's plans concerning the selection of officials in
a democratic state showed that he believed the merging
of the Chinese academic-civil service technique with
Western democracy would produce a paragon among
practicable governments.
</p>

<p>
Fifthly and finally, Sun regarded democracy as an essential
modernizing force.<note place='foot'>Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi>, cited, Book II, ch. 2.</note> In the introduction of Western
material civilization, which was always an important
consideration to his mind, he felt that a certain ideological
and political change had to accompany the economic and
technological revolution that&mdash;in part natural and in part
to be stimulated by nationalist political interference&mdash;was
to revolutionize the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> of China, the economic and
social welfare of the Chinese people. While this argument
in favor of democracy is similar to the historical
argument, it differs from the latter in that Sun Yat-sen
saw the technique of democracy influencing not only the
political, but the economic and social, life of the people as
well. The growth of corporate responsibility, the development
<pb n='102'/><anchor id='Pg102'/>
of a more rigid ethical system in matters of finance,
the disappearance of too strict an emphasis upon the
personal element in politics (which has clouded Chinese
politics with a fog of conspiracy and intrigue for centuries),
a trust in mathematics (as shown in reliance upon
the voting technique for ascertaining public opinion), and
the development of a new kind of individual aggressiveness
and uprightness were among the changes which,
necessary if China was to compete in the modern world,
democracy might assist in effecting. While these desiderata
do not seem large when set down in the vast field
of political philosophy, they are of irritating importance
in the inevitable trivalities upon which so much of day-to-day
life depends, and would undoubtedly improve the
personal tone of Sino-Western relations. Sun never divorced
the theoretical aspects of his thought from the
practical, as has been done here for purposes of exposition,
and even the tiniest details of everyday existence
were the objects of his consideration and criticism. In
itself, therefore, the modernizing force of democracy, as
seen in Sun's theory, may not amount to much; nevertheless,
it must not be forgotten.<note place='foot'>It is of interest to note that the <q>New Life Movement</q> inaugurated
by Chiang Chieh-shih is concerned with many such petty matters such as
those enumerated above. Each of these small problems is in itself of little
consequence; in the aggregate they loom large.</note>
</p>

<p>
Democracy, although secondary in point of time to his
theory, is of great importance in Sun's plans for the political
nature of the new China. He justified democracy
because it was (1) an obligation laid upon modern China
by the sages of antiquity; (2) a necessary consequence of
nationalism, since nationalism was the self-rule of a free
people, and democracy the effectuation of that self-rule,
and democracy the effectuation of that self-rule; (3) the
government of the modern age; China, along with the rest
of the world, was drawn by the tide of progress into the
<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>
age of democratic achievement; (4) the political form
best calculated for the obtaining of good administration;
and (5) a modernizing force that would stir and change
the Chinese people so as to equip them for the competitions
of the modern world.
</p>

<p>
In the lecture in which he criticized the inadequacies
of democracy as applied in the West, Sun Yat-sen made
an interesting comment on the proletarian dictatorship
which had recently been established in Russia. <q>Recently
Russia invented another form of government. That
government is not representative; it is <emph>absolute popular
government</emph>. In what does that absolute popular government
really consist? As we know very little about it, we
cannot judge it aright, but we believe that this (absolute
popular government) is <emph>evidently much better than a
representative government</emph>.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 331.</note> He went on immediately
to say that the Three Principles were what China needed,
and that the Chinese should not imitate the political
systems advocated in Europe and America, but should
adapt democracy in their own way. In view of his objection
to a permanent class dictatorship, as opposed to a
provisional party dictatorship, and the very enthusiastic
advocacy of democracy represented by the arguments described
above, it appears unlikely in the extreme that Sun
Yat-sen, had he lived beyond 1925, would have abandoned
his own plan of democracy for China in favor of <q>absolute
popular government.</q> The phrase was, at the time,
since Sun Yat-sen was seeking Russian assistance, expedient
for a popular lecture. Its importance might easily
be exaggerated.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Three Natural Classes of Men.</head>

<p>
Having in mind the extreme peril in which the Chinese
race-nation stood, its importance in a world of Western or
<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>
Western-type states, and seeing nationalism as the sole
means of defending and preserving China, Sun Yat-sen
demanded that the Chinese ideology be extended by the
acquisition of knowledge. If this modernizing and, if a
neologism be permitted, stateizing process were to succeed,
it must needs be fostered by a well-prepared group of
persons within the society.
</p>

<p>
In the case of the Confucian social theory, it was the
scholars who took the ideology from the beliefs and
traditions of the agrarian masses or whole people, rectified
it, and gave it back to them. This continuous process of
ideological maintenance by means of conformity (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign>) and,
when found necessary, rectification (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chêng ming</foreign>) was carried
on by an educational-political system based upon a
non-hereditary caste of academician-officials called <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Mandarins</foreign>
by the early Western travellers. In the case of those
modern Western states which base their power upon
peculiar ideologies, the philosophy-imposing caste has
been a more or less permanent party- or class-dictatorship.
Superficially, the party-dictatorship planned by Sun Yat-sen
would seem to resemble these. His theory, however,
presents two bases for a class of ideologues: one theoretical,
and presumably based upon the Chinese; and one
applied, which is either of his own invention or derived
from Western sources. The class of ideological reformers
proposed in what may be called the applied aspect of his
theory was to be organized by means of the party-dictatorship
of the Kuomintang. His other basis for finding a
class of persons whose influence over the ideology was to
be paramount was more theoretical, and deserves consideration
among the more abstract aspects of his doctrines.
</p>

<p>
He hypothecated a tripartite division of men:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Men may be divided into three classes according to their innate
ability or intelligence. The first class of men may be called <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien
chih hsien cho</foreign> or the <q>geniuses.</q> The geniuses are endowed with
<pb n='105'/><anchor id='Pg105'/>
unusual intelligence and ability. They are the creators of new
ideas, fathers of invention, and originators of new achievements.
They think in terms of group welfare and so they are the promoters
of progress. Next are the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hou chih hou cho</foreign> or the <q>followers.</q>
Being less intelligent and capable than the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien chih
hsien cho</foreign>, they do not create or invent or originate, but they are
good imitators and followers of the first class of men. The last
are the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>pu chih pu cho</foreign>, or the <q>unthinking,</q> whose intelligence
is inferior to that of the other two classes of men. These people
do what the others instruct them to do, but they do not think
about it. In every sphere of activity all three classes of men are
present. In politics, for example, there are the creators or inventors
of new ideas and movements, then the propagators of
these ideas and movements, and lastly the mass of men who are
taught to practice these ideas.<note place='foot'>Hsü translation, cited, p. 352. It is interesting to note that the
translation by Father d'Elia gives a more literal translation of the names
that Sun Yat-sen applied to these categories. He translates the Chinese
terms as <emph>pre-seeing</emph>, <emph>post-seeing</emph>, and <emph>non-seeing</emph>.</note>
</quote>

<p>
The harmony of this conception with the views of Confucius
is evident. Presbyter is Priest writ large; genius is
another name for scholar. Sun, although bitterly opposed
to the mandarinate of the Empire and the pseudo-Republic,
could not rid himself of the age-old Chinese idea of
a class organization on a basis of intellect rather than of
property. He could not champion a revolutionary creed
based upon an economic class-war which he did not think
existed, and which he did not wish to foster, in his own
country. He continued instead the consistent theory of an
aristocracy of intellect, such as had controlled China
before his coming.
</p>

<p>
The aristocracy of intellect is not to be judged, however,
by the old criteria. Under the old regime, a scholar-ruler
was one who deferred to the wisdom of the ancients, who
was fit to perpetuate the mysteries of the written language
and culture for the benefit of future ages, and who was
<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>
meanwhile qualified by his training to assume the rôle of
counsellor and authority in society. In the theory of Sun
Yat-sen, the genius leader is not the perpetuator but the
discoverer. He is the social engineer. His work is similar
to that of the architect who devises plans for a building
which is to be built by workers (the unthinking) under
the guidance of foremen (the followers).<note place='foot'>Hsü translation, cited, p. 352.</note> In this guise,
the new intellectual aristocrat is a figure more akin to the
romantic Western pioneers and inventors than to the
serene, conservative scholars of China in the past.
</p>

<p>
The break with Western thought comes in Sun's distinguishing
three permanent, natural classes of men.
Though in their aptitudes the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien chih hsien cho</foreign> are
more like modern engineers than like archaic literary
historians, they form a class that is inevitably the ruling
class. To Marxism this is anathema; it would imply that
the Communist party is merely the successor of the bourgeoisie
in leading the unthinking masses about&mdash;a more
benevolent successor, to be sure, but still a class distinct
from the led proletariat of the intellect. To Western
democratic thought, this distinction would seem at first
glance to invalidate any future advocacy of democracy.
To the student interested in contrasting ideological control
and political government, the tripartite division of Sun
Yat-sen is significant of the redefinition in modern terms,
and in an even more clear-cut manner, of the Confucian
theory of scholarly leadership.
</p>

<p>
How were the geniuses of the Chinese resurgence to
make their knowledge useful to the race-nation? How
could democracy be recognized with the leadership and
ideological control of an intellectual class? To what
<pb n='107'/><anchor id='Pg107'/>
degree would such a reconciliation, if effected, represent
a continuation, in different terms, of the traditions and
institutions of the old Chinese world? Questions such as
these arise from the fusion of the old traditions and new
necessities.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf' level1="Ch'uan and Neng"/>
<head>Ch'üan and Nêng.</head>

<p>
The contrast between <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ch'üan</foreign> and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>nêng</foreign> is one of the few
aspects of Sun Yat-sen's theory of democracy which persons
not interested in China may, conceivably, regard as
a contribution to political science. There is an extraordinarily
large number of possible translations for each
of these words.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 348.</note> A version which may prove convenient
and not inaccurate, can be obtained by translating each
Chinese term according to its context. Thus, a fairly
clear idea of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ch'üan</foreign> may be obtained if one says that,
applied to the individual, it means <q>power,</q> or <q>right,</q>
and when applied to the exercise of political functions,
it means <q>sovereignty</q> or <q>political proprietorship.</q>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Nêng</foreign>, applied to the individual, may mean <q>competency</q>
(in the everyday sense of the word), <q>capacity</q> or
<q>ability to administer.</q> Applied to the individual, the
contrast is between the ability to have political rights in a
democracy, and the ability to administer public affairs.
Applied to the nation, the contrast is between sovereignty
and administration.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 352. Sun Yat-sen defined democracy
thus: <q>... under a republican government, the people is sovereign.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
Without this contrast, the doctrine of the tripartite
classification of men might destroy all possibilities of a
practical democracy. If the Unthinking are the majority,
how can democracy be trusted? This contrast, furthermore,
serves to illuminate a further problem: the paradoxical
necessity of an all-powerful government which the
people are able to control.
</p>

<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>

<p>
If this distinction is accepted in the establishment of
a democracy, what will the consequences be?<note place='foot'>Tai Chi-tao, cited, p. 25, refers to this distinction as being between
force (<foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>Gewalt</foreign>) and power (<foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>Macht</foreign>). To the people belonged, and
rightfully, the force which could sanction or refuse to sanction the
existence of the government and the confirmation of its policies. The
government had the power (<foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>Macht</foreign>), which the people did not have, of
formulating intelligent policies and carrying them out in an organized
manner.</note>
</p>

<p>
In the first place, the masses who rule will not necessarily
govern. Within the framework of a democratic constitution,
they will be able to express their wishes, and
make those wishes effective; but it will be impossible for
them to interfere in the personnel of government, whether
merely administrative or in the highest positions. It will
be forever impossible that a <q>swine-representative</q> should
be elected, or that one of those transient epochs of carpet-baggery,
which appear from time to time in most Western
democracies, should corrupt the government. By means of
the popular rights of initiative, referendum, election and
recall, the people will be able to control their government
in the broad sweep of policy. The government will be
beyond their reach insofar as petty political interference,
leading to inferiority or corruption, is concerned.
</p>

<p>
In the second place, the benefits of aristocracy will be
obtained without its cost. The government will be made
up of men especially fit and trained to govern. There will,
hence, be no difficulty in permitting the government to
become extraordinarily powerful in contrast with Western
governments. Since the masses will be able to choose between
a wide selection of able leaders, the democracy will
be safeguarded.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen regarded this as one of the cardinal points
in his doctrines. In retaining the old Chinese idea of a
scholar class and simultaneously admitting Western elective
and other democratic techniques, he believed that he
<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>
had found a scheme which surpassed all others. He saw
the people as stockholders in a company, and the administrators
as directors; he saw the people as the owner
of an automobile, and the administrators as the chauffeur.
</p>

<p>
A further consequence of this difference between the
right of voting and the right of being voted for, but one
to which Sun Yat-sen did not refer, necessarily arises from
his postulation of a class of geniuses leading their followers,
who control the unthinking masses. That is the
continuity which such a group of ideological controllers
would impart to a democracy. Sun Yat-sen, addressing
Chinese, took the Chinese world for granted. A Westerner,
unmindful of the background, might well overlook
some comparatively simple points. The old system,
under which the Empire was a sort of educational system,
was a familiar feature in the politics which Sun Yat-sen
criticized. In arguing for the political acceptance of inequality
and the guarantee of government by a select
group, Sun was continuing the old idea of leadership,
modifying it only so far as to make it consistent with
democracy. Under the system he proposed, the two great
defects of democracy, untrustworthiness and lack of continuity
of policy, would be largely eliminated.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Democratic Machine State.</head>

<p>
Throughout pre-modern Chinese thought there runs the
idea of personal behavior and personal controls. The
Chinese could not hypostatize in the manner of the West.
Looking at men they saw men and nothing more. Considering
the problems and difficulties which men encountered,
they sought solutions in terms of men and the
conditioning intimacies of each individual's life. The Confucian
Prince was not so much an administrator as a moral
leader; his influence, extending itself through imitation
on the part of others, was personal and social rather than
<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>
political.<note place='foot'>Liang Chi-ch'ao, cited, pp. 50-52.</note> In succeeding ages, the scholars thought of
themselves as the leaven of virtue in society. They stressed
deportment and sought, only too frequently by means of
petty formalities, to impress their own excellence and pre-eminence
upon the people. Rarely, if ever, did the scholar-official
appeal to formal political law. He was more likely
to invoke propriety and proceed to exercise his authority
theoretically in accordance with it.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen did not feel that further appeal to the
intellectual leaders was necessary. In an environment still
dominated by the past, an exhortation for the traditional
personal aspect of leadership would probably have appeared
as a centuries-old triteness. The far-seeing men,
the geniuses that Sun saw in all society, owed their
superiority not to artificial inequality but to natural inequality;<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 279 and following.</note>
by their ability they were outstanding. Laws
and customs could outrage this natural inequality, or
conceal it behind a legal facade of artificial inequality or
equally artificial equality. Laws and customs do not
change the facts. The superior man was innately the
superior man.
</p>

<p>
Nevertheless, the geniuses of the Chinese revolution
could not rely upon the loose and personal system of
influence hitherto trusted. To organize Chinese nationalism,
to give it direction as well as force, the power of the
people must be run through a machine&mdash;the State.
</p>

<p>
A distinction must be made here. The term <q>machine,</q>
applied to government, was itself a neologism introduced
from the Japanese.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 368.</note> Not only was the word but the thing
itself was alien to the Chinese, since the same term (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ch'i</foreign>)
meant machinery, tool, or instrument. The introduction
of the view of the state as a machine does not imply that
<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>
Sun Yat-sen wished to introduce a specific form of
Western state-machine into China&mdash;as will be later explained
(in the pages which concern themselves with the
applied political science of Sun Yat-sen).
</p>

<p>
Sun was careful, moreover, to explain that his analogy
between industrial machinery and political machinery was
merely an analogy. He said, <q>The machinery of the
government is entirely composed of human beings. All its
motions are brought about by men and not by material
objects. Therefore, there is a very great difference between
the machinery of the government and the manufacturing
machine ... the machinery of the government is
moved by human agency whereas the manufacturing
machine is set in motion by material forces.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 368-9. Dr. Wou Saofong, in his <hi rend='italic'>Sun
Yat-sen</hi> (Paris, 1929), summarizes his thesis of Sun Yat-sen in somewhat
different terms: <q>... Sun Yat-sen compare, le gouvernement à un
appareil mécanique, dont le moteur est constitué <emph>par les lois</emph> ou les
ministres, tandis que l'ingénieur que dirige la machine était autrefois le
roi et aujourd'hui le peuple,</q> p. 124. (Italics mine.) This suggestion
that the state-machine, in the theory of Sun Yat-sen, is composed of laws
as well as men is quite interesting; Sun Yat-sen himself does not seem to
have used this figure of speech and it may be Dr. Wou's applying the
juristic interpretation on his own initiative. Sun Yat-sen, in his sixth
lecture on democracy, says, <q>Statesmen and lawyers of Europe and America
say that government is a machine of which law is a tool.</q> (d'Elia translation,
cited, p. 368.)</note>
</p>

<p>
Even after allowance has been made for the fact that
Sun Yat-sen did not desire to import Western governmental
machinery, nor even to stress the machine and
state analogy too far, it still remains extraordinarily significant
that he should have impressed upon his followers
the necessity of what may be called a mechanical rather
than an organic type of government. The administrative
machine of the Ch'ing dynasty, insofar as it was a machine
at all, was a chaotic mass of political authorities melting
vaguely into the social system. Sun's desire to have a
clear-cut machine of government, while not of supreme
<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>
importance in his ideological projects, was of great significance
in his practical proposal. In his theory the
state machine bears the same resemblance to the old government
that the Chinese race-nation bears to the now
somewhat ambiguous civilized humanity of the Confucians.
In both instances he was seeking sharper and more
distinct lines of demarcation.
</p>

<p>
In putting forth his proposals for the reconstitution of
the Chinese government he was thinking, in speaking
of a state-machine, of the more or less clearly understood
juristic states of the West.<note place='foot'>It must always remain one of those conjectures upon which scholars
may expend their fantasy what Sun Yat-sen would have thought of the
necessity of the juristic state, which involved a quite radical change
throughout the Chinese social organism, had he lived to see the ebb of
juristic polity and, for all that, of voting democracy. It is not unlikely
that his early impressions of the United States and his reading of Montesquieu
would have led him to retain his belief in a juristic-democratic
state in spite of the fact that such a state would no longer represent the
acme of ultra-modernism.</note> His concrete proposals dealing
with the minutiae of administrative organization, his
emphasis on constitution and law, and his interest in the
exact allocation of control all testify to his complete acceptance
of a sharply delimited state. On the other hand,
he was extraordinary for his time in demanding an unusual
extent, both qualitative and quantitative, of power
for the state which he wished to hammer out on the forges
of the nationalist social and political revolution.
</p>

<p>
In summarizing this description of the instrument with
which Sun Yat-sen hoped to organize the intellectual
leaders of China so as to implement the force of the
revolution, it may be said that it was to be a state-machine,
as opposed to a totalitarian state, based upon Western
juristic theory in general but organized out of the materials
of old Chinese political philosophy and the Imperial experience
in government.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 378 and following.</note> The state machine was to be
<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>
built along lines which Sun Yat-sen laid out in some
detail. Yet, even with his elaborate plans already prepared,
and in the midst of a revolution, he pointed out the
difficulty of political experimentation, in the following
words:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
... the progress of human machinery, as government organizations
and the like, has been very slow. What is the reason?
It is that once a manufacturing machine has been constructed, it
can easily be tested, and after it has been tried out, it can easily
be put aside if it is not good, and if it is not perfect, it can easily
be perfected. But it is very difficult to try out a human machine
and more difficult still to perfect it after it has been tried out. It
is impossible to perfect it without bringing about a revolution.
The only other way would be to regard it as a useless material
machine which can easily be turned into scrap iron. But this is
not workable.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 369.</note>
</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Democratic-Political Versus Ideological Control.</head>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen accepted an organization of society based
upon intellectual differences, despite his belief in the justifiability
and necessity of formal democracy, and his reconciliation
of the two at first contradictory theses in a plan
for a machine state to be based upon a distinction between
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ch'üan</foreign> and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>nêng</foreign>. It may now be asked, why did Sun Yat-sen,
familiar with the old method of ideological control,
and himself proposing a new ideology which would not
only restore internal harmony but also put China into
harmony with the actual political condition of the world,
desire to add formal popular control to ideological
control?
</p>

<p>
The answer is not difficult, although it must be based
for the most part on inference rather than on direct citation
of Sun Yat-sen's own words. In the consideration of
the system of ideological control fostered by the Confucians,
<pb n='114'/><anchor id='Pg114'/>
ideological control presented two distinct aspects:
the formation of the ideology by men, and control of men
by the ideology. The ideology controlled men; some men
sought to control the ideology; the whole ideological control
system was based upon the continuous interaction of
cause and effect, wherein tradition influenced the men
who sought to use the system as a means of mastery, while
the same men succeeded in a greater or less degree in directing
the development of the ideology.
</p>

<p>
In the old Chinese world-society the control of the
ideology was normally vested in the <hi rend='italic'>literati</hi> who were
either government officials or hoped to become such. The
populace, however, acting in conformity with the ideology,
could overthrow the government, and, to that extent,
consciously control the content and the development
of the ideology. Moreover, as the efficacy of an ideology
depends upon its greater acceptance, the populace had the
last word in control of the ideology both consciously and
unconsciously. Politics, however, rarely comes to the last
word. In the normal and ordinary conduct of social
affairs, the populace was willing to let the <hi rend='italic'>literati</hi> uphold
the classics and modify their teachings in accordance with
the development of the ideology&mdash;in the name of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chêng
ming</foreign>. The old ideology was so skilfully put together out
of traditional elements that are indissociable from the
main traits of Chinese culture, together with the revisions
made by Confucius and his successors, that it was well-nigh
unchallengeable. The whole Confucian method of
government was based, as previously stated, on the control
of men through the control of their ideas by men&mdash;and
these latter men, the ideologues, were the scholar administrators
of successive dynasties. The identification of
the <hi rend='italic'>literati</hi> and officials, the respect in which learning was
held, the general distribution of a leaven of scholars
through all the families of the Empire, and the completeness&mdash;almost
<pb n='115'/><anchor id='Pg115'/>
incredible to a Westerner&mdash;of traditional
orthodoxy, permitted the interpreters of the tradition also
to mould and transform it to a considerable degree. As
a means of adjusting the mores through the course of
centuries, interpretation succeeded in gradually changing
popular ideas, where open and revolutionary heterodoxy
would have failed.
</p>

<p>
Now, in modern times, even though men might still
remain largely under the control of the ideology (learn to
behave rightly instead of being governed), the ideology
was necessarily weakened in two ways: by the appearance
of men who were recalcitrant to the ideology, and by the
emergence of conceptions and ideas which could not find
a place in the ideology, and which consequently opened
up extra-ideological fields of individual behavior. In
other words, <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign> was no longer all-inclusive, either as to
men or as to realms of thought. Its control had never,
of course, been complete, for in that case all institutions
of government would have become superfluous in China
and would have vanished; but its deficiencies in past ages
had never been so great; either with reference to insubordinate
individuals or in regard to unassimilable ideas,
as they were in modern times.
</p>

<p>
Hence the province of government had to be greatly
extended. The control of men by the ideology was incomplete
wherever the foreign culture had really struck the
Chinese&mdash;as, for instance, in the case of the newly-developed
Chinese proletariat, which could not follow the
Confucian precepts in the slums of twentieth-century industry.
The family system, the village, and the guild were
to the Chinese proletarians mere shadows of a past; they
were faced individually with the problems of a foreign
social life suddenly interjected into that of the Chinese.
True instances of the interpenetration of opposites, they
were Chinese from the still existing old society of China
<pb n='116'/><anchor id='Pg116'/>
suddenly transposed into an industrial world in which the
old ideology was of little relevance. If they were to remain
Chinese they had to be brought again into the fold
of the Chinese ideology; and, meanwhile, instead of being
controlled ideologically, they must be controlled by the
sharp, clear action of government possessing a monopoly
of the power of coercion. The proletarians were not, indeed,
the only group of Chinese over whom the old
ideology had lost control. There were the overseas Chinese,
the new Chinese finance-capitalists, and others who
had adjusted their personal lives to the Western world.
These had done so incompletely, and needed the action
of government to shield them not only from themselves
and from one another, but from their precarious position
in their relations with the Westerners.
</p>

<p>
Other groups had not completely fallen away from
the ideology, but had found major sections of it to be
unsuitable to the regulation of their own lives. Virtue
could not be found in a family system which was slowly
losing its polygynous character and also slowly giving
place to a sort of social atomism; the intervention of the
machine state was required to serve as a substitute for
ideological regulation until such a time as the new
ideology should have developed sufficiently to restore
relevance to traditions.
</p>

<p>
Indeed, throughout all China, there were few people
who were not touched to a greater or less degree by the
consequences of the collision of the two intellectual
worlds, the nationalistic West and the old Chinese world-society.
However much Chinese might desire to continue
in their traditional modes of behavior, it was impossible
for them to live happy and progressive lives by virtue of
having memorized the classics and paid respect to the
precepts of tradition, as had their forefathers. In all cases
where the old ideas failed, state and law suddenly acquired
<pb n='117'/><anchor id='Pg117'/>
a new importance&mdash;almost overwhelming to some
Chinese&mdash;as the establishers of the new order of life.
Even etiquette was established by decree, in the days of
the parliamentary Republic at Peking; the age-old assurance
of Chinese dress and manners was suddenly swept
away, and the government found itself forced to decree
frock-coats.
</p>

<p>
Successive governments in the new China had fallen,
not because they did too much, but because they did too
little. The sphere of state activity had become enormous
in contrast to what it had been under more than a score
of dynasties, and the state had perforce to intervene in
almost every walk of life, and every detail of behavior.
Yet this intervention, although imperative, was met by the
age-old Chinese contempt for government, by the determined
adherence to traditional methods of control in
the face of situations to which now they were no longer
relevant. It was this paradox, the ever-broadening necessity
of state activity in the face of traditional and unrealistic
opposition to state activity, which caused a great part
of the turmoil in the new China. Officials made concessions
to the necessity for state action by drafting elaborate
codes on almost every subject, and then, turning about,
also made concessions to the traditional non-political
habits of their countrymen by failing to enforce the codes
which they had just promulgated. The leaders of the
Republic, and their followers in the provinces, found
themselves with laws which could not possibly be introduced
in a nation unaccustomed to law and especially
unaccustomed to law dealing with life in a Western way;
thus baffled, but perhaps not disappointed, the pseudo-republican
government officials were content with developing
a shadow state, a shadow body of law, and then
ignoring it except as a tool in the vast pandemonium of
the tuchunates&mdash;where state and law were valued only in
<pb n='118'/><anchor id='Pg118'/>
so far as they served to aggrandize or enrich military
rulers and their hangers-on.
</p>

<p>
This tragic dilemma led Sun Yat-sen to call for a new
kind of state, a state which was to be democratic and yet
to lead back to ideological control. The emergency of
imperialism and internal impotence made it imperative
that the state limit its activities to those provinces of human
behavior in which it could actually effectuate its
decrees, and that, after having so limited the field of its
action, it be well-nigh authoritarian within that field.
Yet throughout the whole scheme, Sun Yat-sen's deep
faith in the common people required him to demand that
the state be democratic in principle and practice.
</p>

<p>
It may begin to be apparent that, at least for Sun Yat-sen,
the control of the race-nation by the ideology was not
inconsistent with the political control of the race-nation by
itself. In the interval between the old certainty and the
new, political authority had to prevail. This authority was
to be directed by the people but actually wielded by the
geniuses of the revolution. The new ideology was to
emerge from the progress of knowledge not, as before,
among a special class of literary persons, but through all
the people. It was to be an ideology based on practical
experience and on the experimental method, and consequently,
perhaps, less certain then the old Confucian
ideology, which was in its foundations religious. To fill
in the gaps where uniformity of thought and behavior,
on the basis of truth, had not been established, the state
was to act, and the state had to be responsible to the
people.
</p>

<p>
At this point it may be remembered that Sun Yat-sen
was among the very few Chinese leaders of his day who
could give the historians of the future any valid reasons
for supposing that they believed in republican principles.
Too many of the militarists and scholar-politicians of the
<pb n='119'/><anchor id='Pg119'/>
North and South paid a half-contemptuous lip-service to
the republic, primarily because they could not agree as to
which one of them should have the Dragon Throne, or,
at the least, the honor of restoring the Manchu Emperor&mdash;who
stayed on in the Forbidden City until 1924.<note place='foot'>Reginald Johnston, <hi rend='italic'>Twilight in the Forbidden City</hi>, cited above, presents
an apparently true account of the conspiracies of the various
Northern generals which centered around the person of P'u Yi. According
to Johnston Tsao Kun was defeated in his attempt to restore the
Manchu Emperor only by the jealousies of his fellow-militarists.</note> Sun
Yat-sen had a deep faith in the judgment and trustworthiness
of the uncounted swarms of coolies and
farmers whom most Chinese leaders ignored. He was
perhaps the only man of his day really loved by the
illiterate classes that knew of him, and was always faithful
to their love. Other leaders, both Chinese and Western,
have praised the masses but refused to trust them for their
own good. Sun's implicit belief in the political abilities
of the common people in all matters which their knowledge
equipped them to judge, was little short of ludicrous
to many of his contemporaries, and positively irritating to
some persons who wished him well personally but did
not&mdash;at least privately&mdash;follow all of his ideas.
</p>

<p>
To return to the consideration of the parts played by
ideology and popular government in social control: there
was another point of great difference between the old
ideology and the new. The old was the creation, largely,
of a special class of scholars, who for that purpose ranked
highest in the social hierarchy of old China. Now even
though the three natural classes might continue to be
recognized in China, the higher standard of living and the
increased literacy of the populace was to enlarge the
number of persons participating in the life of ideas. The
people were to form the ideology in part, and in part
control the government under whose control the revolutionary
geniuses were to form the rest of the ideology,
<pb n='120'/><anchor id='Pg120'/>
and propagate it through a national educational program.
In all respects the eventual control was to rest with the
people of the Chinese race-nation, united, self-ruling, and
determined to survive.
</p>

<p>
How, then, does the pattern of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min ch'üan</foreign> fit into the
larger scheme of the continuation of Confucian civilization
and ideological control? First, the old was to continue
undisturbed where it might. Second, those persons completely
lost to the discipline of the old ideology must be
controlled by the state. Third, those areas of behavior
which were disturbed by the Western impact required
state guidance. Fourth, the machine state was to control
both these fields, of men, and of ideas, and within this
limited field was to be authoritarian (<q>an all-powerful
state</q>) and yet democratic (<q>nevertheless subject to
the control of the people</q>). Fifth, the ideology was to
arise in part from the general body of the people. Sixth,
the other parts of it were to be developed by the intellectuals,
assisted by the government, which was to be also
under the control of the people. Seventh, since the world
was generally in an unstable condition, and since many
wrongs remained to be righted, it was not immediately
probable that the Chinese would settle down to ideological
serenity and certainty, and consequently State policy
would still remain as a governmental question, to be
decided by the will of the whole race-nation.
</p>

<p>
To recapitulate, then the people was to rule itself until
the reappearance of perfect tranquility&mdash;<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ta t'ung</foreign>&mdash;or its
nearest mundane equivalent. The government was to
serve as a canalization of the power of the Chinese race-nation
in fighting against the oppressor-nations of the
world for survival.
</p>

<p>
The last principle of the nationalist ideology remains
to be studied. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min tsu</foreign>, nationalism, was to provide an
instrumentality for self-control and for external defense
<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>
in a world of armed states. But these two would remain
ineffectual in a starved and backward country, if they were
not supplemented by a third principle designed to relieve
the physical impotence of the nation, to promote the material
happiness of its individual members and to guarantee
the continued survival of the Chinese society as a
whole. Union and self-rule could be frustrated by starvation.
China needed not only to become united and free
as a nation; it had also to become physically healthy and
wealthy. This was to be effected through <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>,
the third of the three principles.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf' level1="Chapter IV. The Theory of Min Sheng."/>
<head>Chapter IV. The Theory of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min Shêng</foreign>.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf' level1="Min Sheng in the Ideology."/>
<head><foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min Shêng</foreign> in the Ideology.</head>

<p>
The principle of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> has been the one most disputed.
Sun Yat-sen made his greatest break with the old
ideology in promulgating this last element in his triune
doctrine; the original Chinese term carried little meaning
that could be used in an approach to the new meaning
that Sun Yat-sen gave it. He himself stated that the two
words had become rather meaningless in their old usage,
and that he intended to use them with reference to special
conditions in the modern world.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 406.</note> He then went on to
state the principle in terms so broad, so seemingly contradictory,
that at times it appears possible for each man to
read in it what he will, as he may in the Bible. The Communists
and the Catholics each approve of the third principle,
but translate it differently; the liberals render it by
a term which is not only innocuous but colorless.<note place='foot'>Father d'Elia devotes the whole second chapter of his introduction to
the consideration of a suitable rendition of <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>, which he calls
the Triple Demism. (Work cited, pp. 36-49.) Again on p. 402, he
explains that, while he had translated <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> as <emph>socialism</emph> in the first
French edition of his work, he now renders it as <emph>the economic Demism</emph>
or <emph>sociology</emph>. The most current translation, that of Frank Price, cited,
gives <emph>the principle of livelihood</emph>. Paul Linebarger gave it as <emph>socialism</emph> as
far back as 1917 (<hi rend='italic'>The Chinese Nationalist Monthly</hi>, December, 1917,
Chicago) in Chicago, at the time when Lin Shen, Frank C. Lee and he
were all working for Sun in that city. Dr. H. H. Kung, a high government
official related by marriage to Mme. Sun Yat-sen, speaks of the three
principles of <emph>liberty</emph>, <emph>democracy</emph>, and <emph>economic well-being</emph> (preface to Hsü,
<hi rend='italic'>Sun</hi>, cited, p. xvi). Dr. V. K. Wellington Koo, one of China's most
eminent diplomats, speaks of <emph>social organization</emph> (<hi rend='italic'>Memoranda Presented
to the Lytton Commission</hi>, New York City, n. d.). Citations could be
presented almost indefinitely. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min</foreign> means <q>people,</q> and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>shêng</foreign> means
<q>life; vitality, the living, birth, means of living</q> according to the dictionary
(S. Wells Williams, <hi rend='italic'>A Syllabic Dictionary of the Chinese Language</hi>,
Tungchou, 1909). The mere terms are of very little help in
solving the riddle of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>. Laborious examination is needed, and
even this will not, perhaps, lead us to anything more than probability.
Sun Yat-sen, in his lectures, called it by several different names, which
seem at first sight to contradict each other.</note> Had
<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>
Sun Yat-sen lived to finish the lectures on <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, he
might have succeeded in rounding off his discussion of the
principle.
</p>

<p>
There are two methods by means of which the principle
of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> may be examined. It might be described
on the basis of the various definitions which Sun Yat-sen
gave it in his four lectures and in other speeches and
papers, and outlined, point by point, by means of the
various functions and limits that he set for it. This would
also permit some consideration of the relation of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign> to various other theories of political economy. The
other approach may be a less academic one, but perhaps
not altogether unprofitable. By means of a reconsideration
of the first two principles, and of the structure and
meaning of the three principles as a whole, it is possible
to surmise, if not to establish, the meaning of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>,
that is, to discover it through a sort of political triangulation:
the first two principles being given, to what third
principle do they lead?
</p>

<p>
This latter method may be taken first, since it will
afford a general view of the three principles which will
permit the orientation of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> with reference to the
nationalist ideology as a whole, and prepare the student
for a solution of some of the apparent contradictions
which are to be found in the various specific definitions
of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>.
</p>

<p>
Accepting the elementary thesis of the necessary awakening
of the race-nation, and its equally necessary self-rule,
both as a nation <foreign rend='italic'>vis-à-vis</foreign> other nations, and as a
world by itself, one may see that these are each social
problems of organization which do not necessarily involve
<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>
the physical conditions of the country, although, as a matter
of application, they would be ineffectual in a country
which did not have the adequate means of self-support.
Sun Yat-sen was interested in seeing the Chinese people
and Chinese civilization survive, and by survival he meant
not only the continuation of social organization and moral
and intellectual excellence, but, more than these, the actual
continued existence of the great bulk of the population.
The most vital problem was that of the continued
existence of the Chinese as a people, which was threatened
by the constant expansion of the West and might
conceivably share the fate of the American Indians&mdash;a
remnant of a once great race living on the charity of their
conquerors. Sun Yat-sen expressly recognized this problem
as the supreme one, requiring immediate attention.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 91-92.</note>
Nationalism and democracy would have no effect if the
race did not survive to practise them.
</p>

<p>
The old Chinese society may be conceived as a vast system
of living men, who survived by eating and breeding,
and who were connected with one another in time by the
proper attention to the ancestral cults, and in space by a
common consciousness of themselves as the standard-bearers
of the civilization of the world. Sun Yat-sen, although
a Christian, was not unmindful of this outlook; he too was
sensible of the meaning of the living race through the
centuries. He dutifully informed the Emperor T'ai Tsung
of Ming that the Manchus had been driven from the
throne, and some years later he expressed the deepest
reverence for the ancestral cult.<note place='foot'>Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi>, cited, Bk. IV, p. 62: <q>I must confess that
the idea of using the sacred cult of ancestor worship as a political
machine is very abhorrent to me. In fact, I think that even the rashest
fool would never attempt to use this intimate cult with its exclusively
domestic privacy as a revolutionary instrument.</q></note> But in facing the emergency
with which his race was confronted, Sun Yat-sen
could not overlook the practical question of physical
survival.
</p>

<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>

<p>
He was, therefore, materialistic in so far as his recognition
of the importance of the material well-being of the
race-nation made him so. At this point he may be found
sympathetic with the Marxians, though his ideology as a
whole is profoundly Chinese. The destitution, the economic
weakness, the slow progress of his native land were
a torture to his conscience. In a world of the most grinding
poverty, where war, pestilence, and famine made even
mere existence uncertain, he could not possibly overlook
the problem of the adequate material care of the vast
populace that constituted the race-nation.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min shêng</foreign>, accordingly, meant primarily the survival
of the race-nation, as nationalism was its awakening, and
democracy its self-control. No one of these could be effective
without the two others. In the fundamentals of
Sun Yat-sen's ideology, the necessity for survival and prosperity
is superlative and self-evident. All other features
of the doctrine are, as it were, optional. The first two
principles definitely required a third that would give them
a body of persons upon which to operate; they did not
necessarily require that the third principle advance any
specific doctrine. If this be the case, it is evident that the
question of the content of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, while important, is
secondary to the first premises of the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>.
The need for a third principle&mdash;one of popular subsistence&mdash;in
the ideology is vital; the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> would
be crippled without it.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf' level1="The Economic Background of Min Sheng."/>
<head>The Economic Background of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min Shêng</foreign>.</head>

<p>
What was the nature of the background which decided
Sun Yat-sen to draw an economic program into the total
of his nationalist ideology for the regeneration of China
through a nationalist revolution? Was Sun Yat-sen dissatisfied
<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>
with the economic order of the old society? Was
he interested in a reconstitution of the economic system
for the sake of defense against Western powers?
</p>

<p>
He was unquestionably dissatisfied with the economic
order of things in the old society, but it was a dissatisfaction
with what the old order had failed to achieve rather
than a feeling of the injustice of the Chinese distributive
system. He was bitter against a taxation system which
worked out unevenly,<note place='foot'>Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen and the Chinese Republic</hi>, New York, 1925,
pp. 68-9.</note> and against the extortions of the
internal-transit revenue officials under the Empire.<note place='foot'>The same, pp. 135-139.</note> He
was deeply impressed by his first encounter with Western
mechanical achievement&mdash;the S. S. <hi rend='italic'>Grannoch</hi>, which took
him from Kwangtung to Honolulu.<note place='foot'>The same, pp. 104-105.</note> But he had served
in the shop of his brother as a young boy,<note place='foot'>The same, pp. 122-123.</note> and knew the
small farm life of South China intimately. On the basis
of this first-hand knowledge, and his many years of association
with the working people of China, he was not
likely to attack the old economic system for its injustice
so much as for its inadequacy.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 472.</note>
</p>

<p>
That there were injustices in the old system of Chinese
economy, no one can deny, but these injustices were
scarcely sufficient to provoke, of themselves alone, the
complete alteration of economic outlook that Sun Yat-sen
proposed. Chinese capitalism had not reached the state
of industrial capitalism until after its contact with the
West; at the most it was a primitive sort of usury-capitalism
practised by the three economically dominant groups
of old China&mdash;landholders, officials, and merchant-usurers.<note place='foot'>Karl A. Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft Chinas</hi>, Leipzig, 1931.
The author, the German Marxian who wrote the best Marxist critique of
Sun Yat-sen, is the only scholar to seek a really complete picture of the
old Chinese economy by the technique of modern Western economic
analysis. Described by the author as an <q>attempt,</q> the first volume of
this work runs to 737 pages. It is valuable for the large amount of statistical
material which it contains, and for its systematic method; its
Marxian bias narrows its interest considerably.</note>
The disturbances which hurt the economic condition
<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>
of the country, and thereby led to greater disturbances,
had involved China in a vicious cycle of decline
which could scarcely be blamed on any one feature or any
one group in the old economy. The essential fault lay
with the condition of the country as a whole, directly affected
by the economic consequences of Western trade and
partial industrialization.<note place='foot'>Both works of Wittfogel, cited above, are useful for the understanding
of the transition from the old economy to the new. For a general
view of the economic situation and potentialities of China, see George B.
Cressey, <hi rend='italic'>China's Geographic Foundations</hi>, New York, 1934. The bibliography
on Chinese economy to be found in Latourette, cited above, vol. II,
pp. 116-119, is useful.</note>
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's positive dissatisfaction with the economy
of his time arose from the position which he felt China
had in the modern business world. He believed that, by
virtue of the economic oppression of the Chinese by the
Western powers, China had been degraded to the position
of the lowest nation on earth&mdash;that the Chinese were
even more unfortunate than <q>slaves without a country,</q>
such as the Koreans and the Annamites.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 97.</note> The particular
forms of this oppression, and Sun Yat-sen's plans for
meeting it, may be more aptly described in the consideration
of his program of economic national regeneration.<note place='foot'>See below, section on the national economic revolution.</note>
The Chinese nation occupied the ignominious position of
a sub-colony or&mdash;as Sun himself termed it&mdash;<q>a hypo-colony</q>;
<q>Our people are realizing that to be a semi-colony
is a national disgrace; but our case is worse than
that; our country is in the position of a sub-colony (since
it is the colony of all the Great Powers and not merely
subject to one of them), a position which is inferior to an
ordinary colony such as Korea and Annam.</q><note place='foot'>Hsü translation, cited, pp. 186-187. The d'Elia translation gives a
more exact rendering of Sun Yat-sen's words (p. 97), but, by following
Sun Yat-sen in calling China a hypo-colony, is less immediately plain to
the Western reader than is the translation of Dr. Hsü, who in this
instance uses <q>sub</q> and <q>hypo</q> interchangeably.</note>
</p>

<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>

<p>
What, then, were the positive implications of the principle
of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> in the nationalist ideology?
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf' level1="The Three Meanings of Min Sheng."/>
<head>The Three Meanings of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min Shêng</foreign>.</head>

<p>
First, <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> is the doctrine leading the nationalist
democracy on its road to a high position among the nations
of the earth; only through the material strength to
be found in <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> can the Chinese attain a position
by which they can exert the full force of their new-formed
state against the invaders and oppressors, and be able to
lift up the populace so that democracy will possess some
actual operative meaning. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min shêng</foreign> is <q>... the center
of politics, of economics, of all kinds of historical movements;
it is similar to the center of gravity in space.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 443.</note>
It provides the implementation of nationalism and democracy.
</p>

<p>
Secondly, <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> means national enrichment. The
problem of China is primarily one of poverty. Sun wanted
consideration of the problem of the livelihood of the people
to begin with the supreme economic reality in China.
What was this reality? <q>It is the poverty from which we
all suffer. The Chinese in general are poor; among them
there is no privileged wealthy class, but only a generality
of ordinary poor people.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 452.</note> However this enrichment
was to be brought about, it was imperative.
</p>

<p>
Thirdly, <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, as the doctrine of enrichment, was
also the doctrine of economic justice. If the nation was to
become economically healthy, it could only do so on the
basis of the proper distribution of property among its citizens.
Its wealth would not bring about well-being unless
it were properly distributed.
</p>

<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>

<p>
More briefly, <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> may be said to be the thesis of
the indispensability of: 1) a national economic revolution
against imperialism and for democracy; 2) an industrial
revolution for the enrichment of China; and 3) a prophylactic
against social revolution.
</p>

<p>
The significance of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> as the economic implementation
of nationalism and democracy is clear enough
to require no further discussion. Its significance as a doctrine
for the promotion of the industrial revolution is considerable,
and worth attention.
</p>

<p>
Western science was to sow the seed. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min shêng</foreign>
economy was to reap the harvest. By means of the details
in Sun Yat-sen's programs which he believed sufficient for
the purposes, the modernization of China, which was to
be a consequence of Western science in the ideology, was
to lead at the same time to the actual physical enrichment
of the economic goods and services of the country. The
advocacy of industrial development is, of course, a commonplace
in the Western world, but in China it was
strikingly novel. Sun Yat-sen did not regard industrialism
as a necessary evil; he considered it a positive blessing,
as the means of increasing the material welfare of
the Chinese people.
</p>

<p>
Time and time again, Sun Yat-sen emphasized the necessity
of modernization. His theory of nationalism led
him to urge the introduction of Western physical science
into the ideology. His theory of democracy was justified
in part by the fact that democracy was to be regarded as
a modernizing force. Now his principle of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>
was also to lead to that great end&mdash;the modernization of
China to a degree to permit the race-nation to regain in
the modern world, which encompassed the whole planet,
the position it had once had in the smaller world of Eastern
Asia.
</p>

<p>
The wealth of old China had been one of the factors
enabling it to resist destruction at the spear-points of its
<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>
barbarian conquerors. Sun Yat-sen knew this, and knew
also that the position of the United States&mdash;which had
probably the greatest concentration of social and physical
wealth and power under one political system that the
world had ever known&mdash;made that nation impregnable in
the modern world. Seeing that wealth was not only a
blessing to individuals, but to nations as well, he was anxious
that his beloved China should be guarded and assisted
by the strength that the ideology of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>,
once accepted and effectuated, could give it.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min shêng</foreign> is more than a vague aspiration for national
welfare. The general theory of nationalism and democracy
required an additional point to make them effective
in the realities of international politics, and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>
was to supply the hygienic and economic strength that
the Chinese race-nation needed for competition and survival;
but it was to do more.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min shêng</foreign> is at the same time the last step of Chinese
resistance and the first of Chinese submission to Western
culture. In seeking an economic policy and an ideology
which would lead to increased wealth of the nation, the
Chinese were preparing to resist the West with its own
weapons. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min shêng</foreign> is a submission in that it is a deliberate
declaration of industrial revolution.
</p>

<p>
It is beside the point to consider the ideological bases
of the Western industrial revolution. It was perhaps
neither a voluntary nor a deliberate process at all; no man
in the first few decades of the nineteenth century could
have foretold what the end of a process of mechanization
would bring, or was likely to advocate the intentional following
of a policy which would transform the orientation
and organization of man more thoroughly than had any
previous religious, political, and economic transition. The
industrial revolution of Euramerica, when viewed from
the outside, presents the appearance of a colossal accident,
whether for good or for bad, which was but half-perceived
<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>
by the participants in it. Even today, when the
ideology and the institutional outline of the agrarian-handicraft
past is fading swiftly away in the new brilliance
of Western machine-culture, the new certainty, the
new order have not yet appeared. The great transition
works its way beyond the knowledge or the intervention
of individual men.
</p>

<p>
This was decidedly not the case in China. Industrialism
was something which could be studied from the outside,
which could be appraised, and then acclaimed or resisted.
Emperor Meiji and his Genro, with a flash of
intuition or an intellectual penetration almost unparalleled
in the political history of the world, guided Japan
into the swift current of mechanical progress; the island
empire swept ahead of Asia, abreast of the most powerful
states of the world. The Chinese court, under the resolute,
but blind, guidance of the Empress Dowager, made
a few feeble gestures in favor of modernization, but vigorously
opposed any change which might seriously modify
the order of Chinese society or the position of the Manchus.
In the shadow of the foreign guns, industrialism
crept into China, along the coasts and up the banks of
the navigable rivers. One might suppose that the Chinese
were in a position to choose, deliberately, for or against
industrialism. They were not; in China, as in the West,
the machine age first appeared largely as an accident.
</p>

<p>
It is here that the significance of Sun Yat-sen's <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign> becomes apparent. Above all other subsidiary
meanings, it is a deliberate declaration of the industrial
revolution. Modernism had been an accident; Sun Yat-sen
wished to transform it into a program. What would
be the ideological consequences of such an attitude?
</p>

<p>
In the first place, a plan was indicated for almost every
type of human behavior. Sun Yat-sen himself drafted a
<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>
preliminary scheme for a modern manufacturing and communications
system.<note place='foot'>His <hi rend='italic'>International Development of China</hi>, New York, 1922 (republished
1929), is a colossal plan which could only be compared with the
<hi rend='italic'>Piatiletka</hi> or with the New Deal in the United States, since Sun Yat-sen
suggested that&mdash;in order to avoid the consequences of a post-war depression&mdash;the
nations of the world might cooperate in the equal exploitation
of Chinese national resources with the Chinese. He proposed the modernization
of China by a vast international loan which could permit the
Western nations to maintain their war-time peak production, supplying
China (1929 ed., p. 8). He concludes the work: <q>In a nutshell, it is
my idea to make capitalism create socialism in China so that these two
economic forces of human civilization will work side by side in future
civilization</q> (p. 237). The work is, however, generally regarded as a
transportation plan, since Sun Yat-sen sketched out a railway map of
China which would require decades to realize, and which overshadowed,
by its very magnitude, the other aspects of his proposals.</note> The road that China was to take
would not be the miserable, halting progress of industrialism,
complicated by delays and wars, which the West had
known in the painful centuries of readjustment from the
medieval to modern civilization; China would not stumble
forward, but would deliberately select the swiftest and
easiest way to a sound industrialism, and then take it.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min shêng</foreign> thus not only provides the Chinese with a
way to make their nationalism, their democracy, and their
stateification felt in the hour of their ultimate triumph;
it gives them something to do to bring about that triumph.
</p>

<p>
On the basis of the outlines of the ideology and the
social system that Sun Yat-sen proposed, viewed from the
perspective of the old Confucian world-society, the reader
will realize that this declaration of the industrial revolution
is the boldest of Sun Yat-sen's acts, and that the
meaning of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> as a program of complete modernization
and reconstruction is superior to other possible
meanings it may have, in regard to theoretical national or
social revolution. There is nothing remote or philosophical
about the significance of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> when so viewed;
it is a plan to which a Lenin or a Henry Ford might subscribe
with equal fervor&mdash;although a Tagore would deplore
<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>
it. It is here that Sun Yat-sen appears as the champion
of the West against the traditional technological
stagnation of China. Yet just there, at the supreme point
of his Westernism, we must remember what he was fighting
for: the life of a race-nation and a civilization that
was contradictory to the West. The stability of Confucianism
could not serve as a cloak for reaction and stagnant
thought. For its own good, nay, its own life, Chinese
civilization had to modernize (i. e., Westernize economically)
in order to compete in a West-ruled world.
But what, more specifically, was the socio-economic position
of Sun Yat-sen? Was he a Marxian? Was he a liberal?
Was he neither?
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Western Influences: Henry George, Marxism and
Maurice William.</head>

<p>
As previously stated there are three parts which may be
distinguished in the ideology of the principle of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign>. <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min shêng</foreign> is, first, the economic aspect of the
national revolution&mdash;the creation of an active race-nation
of China implementing its power by, second, technological
revolution. Third, it connotes also the necessity of a social
revolution of some kind. Western commentators have
been prone to ignore the significance of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> in the
first two of these meanings, and have concentrated on disputation
concerning the third part. The question of the
right system of distribution has become so prominent in
much Western revolutionary thought that, to many, it
sums up the whole moral issue concerning what is good
and bad in society.<note place='foot'>At the risk of digression, one might comment on an interesting element
of the Euramerican ideology which is in sharp contrast to the
Chinese. The West has, apparently, always been devoted to dichotomies
of morality. The Greeks had reason and unenlightenment, and whole
series of ideals that could be fought for and against, but the real division
of good and bad in the West came, of course, with Christianity, which
accustomed Westerners to think for centuries in terms of holiness versus
evil&mdash;they being, geographically, holy, and the outsiders (heathen), evil.
Now that the supernatural foundations of Christianity have been shaken
by the progress of scientific and intellectual uncertainty, many Westerners
find an emotional and an intellectual satisfaction in dividing the world into
pure and unclean along lines of sometimes rather abstruse economic questions.
This new morality seems to be based on distributive economics
rather than on deity. It is employed, of course, by the Marxians, but their
adversaries, in opposing them with equal passion, fall into the same habit.
It is shocking and unbelievable to such persons to discover that there is a
society whose ideology does not center around the all-meaningful point of
the ownership of the means of production. Their only reaction is a negation
of the possibility of such thought, or, at least, of its realism. The
intellectual position of Sun Yat-sen in the modern world would be more
clearly appreciated if the intellectuals of the West were not adjusting
their ideological and emotional habits from religion to economics, and
meanwhile judging all men and events in economic terms. The present
discussion of Sun Yat-sen's economic ideology is a quite subordinate one
in comparison to the examination of his ideology as a whole, but some
persons will regard it as the only really important point that could be
raised concerning him.</note> They are uninterested in or ignorant
<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>
of the great importance that the first two aspects of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign> possess for the Chinese mind. The third part, the
application of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> to the problems that are in the
West the cause of social revolution, and to the possible
application of social revolution to China, is important, but
is by no means the complete picture.
</p>

<p>
In attempting to state the definitive position of Sun
Yat-sen on this question several points must be kept in
mind. The first is that Sun Yat-sen, born a Chinese of the
nineteenth century, had the intellectual orientation of a
member of the world-society, and an accepter of the Confucian
ideology. Enough has been shown of the background
of his theories to demonstrate their harmony with
and relevance to society which had endured in China for
centuries before the coming of the West. The second
point to be remembered is that Westerners are prone to
overlook this background and see only the Western influences
which they are in such a good position to detect.
Sun Yat-sen's mind grew and changed. His preferences in
<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>
Western beliefs changed frequently. A few Westerners,
seeing only this, are apt to call Sun unstable and devoid
of reason.<note place='foot'>Tsui, cited, p. 345, quotes Nathaniel Peffer: <q>... Peffer said that
Dr. Sun never <q>attained intellectual maturity, and he was completely
devoid of the faculty of reason. He functioned mentally in sporadic
hunches. It was typical of him that he met Joffe, read the Communist
Manifesto, and turned Communist, and then read one book by an American
of whom he knew nothing, and rejected communism all in a few
months.</q></q> Sun Yat-sen knew Marxism, years before the Russian Revolution.
The Communist Manifesto was not new to him. He was extraordinarily
well read in Western political and economic thought. Sun Yat-sen
never turned Communist, nor did he subsequently reject communism
any more than he had done for years.</note>
</p>

<p>
It would, indeed, be strange to find any Western political
or ideological leader who thought in precisely the
same terms after the world war and the Russian revolution
as before. Sun Yat-sen was, like many other receptive-minded
leaders, sensitive to the new doctrines of
Wilson and Lenin as they were shouted through the
world. He was, perhaps, less affected by them than Western
leaders, because his ideology was so largely rooted in
the ideology of old China.
</p>

<p>
Apart from the winds of doctrine that blew through the
world during Sun's life-period, and the generally known
Western influences to which he was exposed,<note place='foot'>The author hopes, at some future time, to be able to fill in the
intellectual background of Sun Yat-sen much more thoroughly than he is
able to at the present, for lack of materials. One interesting method would
involve the listing of every Western book with which Sun Yat-sen can be
shown to have been acquainted. It might be a fairly accurate gauge of the
breadth of his information.</note> there were
three writers whose influence has been supposed to have
been critical in the development of his thinking. These
three were Henry George, Karl Marx, and Maurice William
of New York. A much greater amount of material
is needed for a detailed study of the influences of various
individual theories on Sun Yat-sen than for a general exposition
of his political doctrines as a whole. At the present
<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>
time scarcely enough has been written to permit any
really authoritative description of the relations between
the ideology of Sun Yat-sen and the thought of these three
men. It is possible, nevertheless, to trace certain general
outlines which may serve to clarify the possible influence
that was exercised on Sun, and to correct some current
misapprehensions as to the nature and extent of that
influence.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's opposition to the <q>unearned increment</q>
shows the influence of the thought of Henry George.
Sun proposed an ingenious scheme for the government
confiscation of unearned increment in an economy which
would nevertheless permit private ownership of land.
(Incidentally, he terms this, in his second lecture on <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign>, <q>communism,</q> which indicates a use of the word
different, in this respect at least, from the conventional
Western use.)<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 461-468. Father d'Elia's note on the
relative positions of Henry George and Sun (p. 466) is interesting. For
a discussion of the actual program proposed by Sun, see below, <q>The
Program of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min Shêng</foreign></q> section on land policy.</note> The land problem was of course a very
old one in China, although accentuated in the disorders
resulting from the impact of the West. There can be little
question that Sun's particular method of solving the problem
was influenced by the idea of unearned increment.
</p>

<p>
He knew of Henry George in 1897, the year the latter
died,<note place='foot'>Lyon Sharman, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, cited, p. 58.</note> and advocated redistribution of the land in the
party oath, the platform, and the slogans of the <hi rend='italic'>Tung
Meng Hui</hi> of 1905.<note place='foot'>The same, pp. 98-99. There is an inconsistency of wording here, which
may or may not be the fault of the translator. The oath refers to the
<q>equitable redistribution of the land</q> (p. 98); the platform speaks of
<q>the nationalization of land</q> (p. 98); and one of the slogans is
<q>Equalize land-ownership!</q></note> Since, even at the time of the
Canton-Moscow Entente, his land policy never approached
the Marxist-Leninist program of nationalization or collectivization
of land, but remained one of redistribution
<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>
and confiscation of unearned increment, it is safe to say
that Sun kept the theory of George in mind, although he
by no means followed George to the latter's ultimate conclusions.<note place='foot'>See also the discussion in Tsui, <hi rend='italic'>Canton-Moscow Entente</hi>, cited, pp.
371-376; and in Li Ti-tsun, <q>The Sunyatsenian principle of Livelihood,</q>
<hi rend='italic'>The Chinese Students' Monthly</hi>, XXIV (March 1929), pp. 230. Li declares
that Sun envisioned immediate redistribution but ultimate socialization,
but does not cite his source for this. Li's discussion of sources is
good otherwise.</note>
It may thus be inferred that the influence of
Henry George upon the nationalist ideology of Sun Yat-sen
was slight, but permanent. An idea was borrowed;
the scheme of things was not.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen encountered Marxism for the first recorded
time in London in 1897, when he met a group of Russian
revolutionaries and also read in the subject. The fact that
Sun was exposed to Marxism proves little except that he
had had the opportunity of taking up Marxism and did
not do so.<note place='foot'>Sharman, p. 58; the same authority for the statement as to the 1905
manifesto.</note> Again, the <hi rend='italic'>Tung Meng Hui</hi> manifesto of
1905 may have been influenced by Marxism. It was not,
however, until the development of his <hi rend='italic'>Three Principles</hi>
that the question of Marxian influence was raised. Sun
Yat-sen made his first speech on the <hi rend='italic'>Principles</hi> in Brussels
in the spring of 1905.<note place='foot'>Sharman, p. 94.</note> By 1907 the three principles
had taken on a clear form: nationalism, democracy, and
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, which the Chinese of that time seem to have
translated <hi rend='italic'>socialism</hi> when referring to it in Western
languages.<note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, cited, p. 61.</note>
</p>

<p>
The most careful Marxian critic of Sun Yat-sen, writing
of the principle of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> and its two main planks,
land reform and state capitalism, says: <q>This very vague
program, which does not refer to class interests nor to the
class struggle as the means of breaking privileged class interests,
was objectively not socialism at all, but something
<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>
else altogether: Lenin coined the formula, <q>subjective
socialism,</q> for it.</q><note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, cited, p. 66: <q>Dieses sehr unpräzise Programm,
das die Frage der Klasseninteressen und des Klassenkampfes als
des Mittels zur Brechung privilegierter Klasseninteressen nicht aufwirft,
war objektiv gar nicht Sozialismus, sondern etwas durchaus anderes:
Lenin hat die Formel <q><emph>Subjektiver Sozialismus</emph></q> dafür geprägt.</q></note> He adds, later: <q>Hence Sun's socialism
meant, on the lips of the Chinese bourgeoisie,
nothing but a sort of declaration for a <q>social</q> economic
policy, that is, a policy friendly to the masses.</q><note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, cited, p. 67: <q>So bedeutete denn Suns
<q>Sozialismus</q> im Munde der Chinesischen Bourgeoisie nichts als ein Art
Bekenntness zu einer <q>sozialen,</q> d.h. massenfreundlichen Wirtschaftspolitik.</q></note> T'ang
Liang-li declares that the third principle at this time
adopted <q>a frankly socialistic attitude,</q><note place='foot'>T'ang, cited, p. 46.</note> but implies
elsewhere that its inadequacy was seen by a Chinese Marxist,
Chu Chih-hsin.<note place='foot'>T'ang, cited, p. 172.</note> This evidence, as far as it goes,
shows that Sun Yat-sen had had the opportunity to become
acquainted with Marxism, and that even on the occasion
of the first formulation of the principle of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign> he used none of its tenets. The revolutionary critic,
T'ang Liang-li, who, a devoted and brilliant Nationalist
in action, writes with a sort of European left-liberal
orientation, suggests that the Third Principle grew with
the growth of capitalist industrialism in China.<note place='foot'>T'ang, cited, p. 172.</note> This is
true: economic maladjustment would emphasize the need
for ideological reconstruction with reference to the
economy. There is no need to resort to Marxian analysis.
</p>

<p>
That the third principle meant something to Sun Yat-sen
is shown by the fact that when Sung Chiao-jen, who a
few years later was to become one of the most celebrated
martyrs of the revolution, suggested in the period of the
first provisional Republic at Nanking that the Third Principle
had better be omitted altogether, Sun was enraged,
<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>
and declared that if <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> were to be given up, the
whole revolution might as well be abandoned.<note place='foot'>T'ang, cited, pp. 171-172.</note>
</p>

<p>
Since <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, in its third significance, that of the
development of a socially just distributive system, was
not Marxian nor yet unimportant, it may be contrasted
once again with the communist doctrines, and then studied
for its actual content. In contrasting it with Marxism, it
might be of value to observe, first, the criticism that the
Marxians levy against it, and second, the distinctions that
nationalist and European critics make between <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>
and communism.
</p>

<p>
Dr. Karl Wittfogel, the German Marxist whose work
on Sun Yat-sen is the most satisfactory of its kind, points
out the apparent contradictions in the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>:
on the one hand, statements which are not only objectively
but subjectively friendly to capitalism (on the excellence
of the Ford plant; on the necessity for the coöperation of
capital and labor)&mdash;on the other, the unmerciful condemnation
of capitalism; on the one hand, the declaration that
there is no capitalism in China&mdash;on the other, that capitalism
must be destroyed as it appears; on the right, the
statement that communism and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> are opposed&mdash;on
the left, that the communist doctrines are a subsidiary
part of the ideology of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>.<note place='foot'>Wittfogel, cited, pp. 117-118.</note> How, asks Wittfogel,
does this all fit together? He answers by pointing out the
significance of Sun's theses when considered in relation to
the dialectical-materialist interpretation of recent Far
Eastern history:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
His three principles incorporate
</p>

<lg>
<l>in their <emph>development</emph> the objective change in the socio-economic
situation of China,</l>
<l>in their <emph>contradictions</emph> the real contradictions of the Chinese revolution,</l>
<l>in their <emph>latest tendencies</emph> the transposition of the social center of
gravity of the revolution, which sets the classes in action,
<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>
and whose aim is no longer a bourgeois capitalist one, but
proletarian-socialist and peasant agrarian-revolutionary.</l>
</lg>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen is according to this not only the hitherto most
powerful representative of the bourgeois-national, anti-imperialist
revolutions of awakening Asia; he points at the same time
outwards over the bourgeois class limitations of the first step of
the Asiatic movement for liberation. To deny this were portentuous,
even for the proletarian communist movement of
Eastern Asia.<note place='foot'><p>Wittfogel, cited, p. 140: <q rend='pre'>... Seine Drei Prinzipien verkörpern in
ihrer <hi rend='italic'>Entwicklung</hi> den objektiven Wandel der ökonomisch-sozialen Situation
Chinas, in ihren <hi rend='italic'>Widersprüchen</hi> die realen Widersprüche der chinesischen
Revolution, in ihren <hi rend='italic'>jüngsten Tendenzen</hi> die Verlagerung des
sozialen Schwerpunktes der Revolution, die Klassen in Aktion setzt, deren
Ziel nicht mehr ein bürgerlich-kapitalistisches, sondern ein proletarisch-sozialistisches
und ein bauerlich-agrar-revolutionäres ist.</q>
</p>
<p>
<q>Sun Yat-sen ist demnach nicht nur der bisher mächtigste Repräsentant
der bürgerlich-nationalen, antiimperialistischen Revolutionen des erwach-enden
Asiens überhaupt, er weist zugleich über die bürgerliche Klassen-schranke
dieser ersten Etappe der asiatischen Befreiungsbewegung hinaus.
Dies zu verkennen, wäre verhängnisvoll, gerade auch für die proletarisch-kommunistische
Bewegung Ostasiens selbst.</q></p></note>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The modifications which the Marxians have introduced
into their programs with respect to the class struggle in
colonial countries do not imply a corresponding modification
of their ideology. The determinism adopted from
Hegel, the economic interpretation of history&mdash;these and
other dogmas are held by the Marxians to be universally
valid despite their Western origin.
</p>

<p>
We have seen what Sun's chief Marxian exegete thinks
of him. Now it may be worth while to consider the actual
relations of Sun's doctrines with some of those in Marxism.
In the first place, Sun Yat-sen, during his stay in
Shanghai, 1919-1922 (with interruptions), was very much
interested in Communism and friendly to the Russian
people, but not at all inclined to adopt its ideology.<note place='foot'>Statement of Judge Linebarger to the author. See also Linebarger,
<hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi>, references to Communism which occur throughout the
whole book.</note>
</p>

<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>

<p>
In reference to specific points of the Communist ideology,
Sun Yat-sen was indebted to the Communists for
the application of the principle of nationalism, as a means
of propaganda, as anti-imperialism, although, as we have
seen, it was fundamentally a thesis for the readjustment
of the Chinese society from the ideological basis of a
world-society over to a national state among national
states.<note place='foot'>Tsui, cited, p. 144. It would involve a duplication of effort for the
present author to repeat the material of Dr. Tsui's excellent monograph
on Sun Yat-sen and the Bolsheviks. Since the purpose of the present work
is to undertake an exposition of the Nationalist political ideology and
programs against the background of the old Chinese ideology, such an
emphasis upon one comparatively small point in Sun Yat-sen's doctrines
would be entirely disproportionate as well as superfluous. The reader is
referred to the work of Dr. Tsui for any details of these relations that he
may wish to examine.</note> Second, his habit of taking Western doctrines
and applying them to the Chinese nation instead of to
Chinese individuals, led him to apply nationalism to the
class war of the oppressed nations against the oppressing
nations. There was no justification of intra-national class
war in the nationalist ideology of Sun Yat-sen.<note place='foot'>See Tsui, cited, and section below, on the class struggle of the nations.</note> In his
doctrine of democracy, his application of a class-system
based on intellect was a flat denial of the superior significance
of the Marxian economic-class ideology, as was his
favoring of the development of a five-power liberal government
through <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ch'üan</foreign> and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>nêng</foreign> in place of a dictatorship
of the proletariat operating through soviets. Finally,
in relation to <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, his use of the Confucian philosophy&mdash;the
interpretation of history through <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>&mdash;was a
contradiction of the materialist interpretation of history
by the Marxians. It also contradicted the class struggle;
the loyalty of the Chinese to the race-nation was to be the
supreme loyalty; it was to develop from the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ta chia</foreign>, the
great family of all Chinese; and class lines within it could
not transcend its significance. Furthermore, purely as a
matter of economic development, Sun Yat-sen regarded
<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>
the class struggle as <emph>pathological</emph> in society. He said,
<q>Out of his studies of the social question, Marx gained
no other advantage than a knowledge of the diseases of
social evolution; he failed to see the principle of social
evolution. Hence we can say that Marx was a pathologist
rather than a physiologist of society.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 450. See also Tsui, cited, pp. 353-354;
and Li, cited, pp. 229 and following.</note> Finally, he did
not accept the Marxian theory of surplus value or of the
inevitable collapse of capitalism. He even spoke of capitalism
and socialism as <q>two economic forces of human
civilization</q> which might <q>work side by side in future
civilization.</q><note place='foot'>Sun, <hi rend='italic'>Development of China</hi>, cited, p. 237.</note>
</p>

<p>
All in all, it may safely be said that Sun Yat-sen's ideology,
as an adjustment of the old Chinese ideology to
the modern world, was not inspired by the Marxist; that
through the greater part of his life, he was acquainted
with Marxism, and did not avail himself of the opportunities
he had for adopting it, but consistently rejected it;
and that while the Communists were of great use to him
in the formulation and implementation of his program,
they affected his ideology, either generally or with reference
to <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, imperceptibly if at all.
</p>

<p>
This conclusion is of significance in the estimation of
the influence of Maurice William upon the thought of
Sun Yat-sen. It is, briefly, the thesis of Dr. William that
it was his own book which saved China from Bolshevism
by making an anti-Marxian out of Sun after he had fallen
prey to the Bolshevist philosophy. Dr. William writes of
the lectures on Nationalism and Democracy; <q>In these
lectures Dr. Sun makes clear that his position is strongly
pro-Russian and pro-Marxian, that he endorses the class
struggle, repudiates Western democracy, and advocates
China's coöperation with Bolshevist Russia against capitalist
<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>
nations.</q><note place='foot'>Maurice William, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen Versus Communism</hi>, Baltimore, 1932,
p. 4.</note> Dr. William then goes on to show,
quite convincingly, that Sun Yat-sen, with very slight
acknowledgments, quoted William's <hi rend='italic'>The Social Interpretation
of History</hi> almost verbatim for paragraph after
paragraph in the lectures on <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>.
</p>

<p>
It would be unjust and untruthful to deny the great
value that William's book had for Sun Yat-sen, who did
quote it and use its arguments.<note place='foot'>William, in his <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen Versus Communism</hi>, cited, proves beyond
doubt that Sun Yat-sen was strongly indebted to him for many anti-Marxian
arguments.</note> On the other hand, it is
a manifest absurdity to assume that Sun Yat-sen, having
once been a communist, suddenly reversed his position
after reading one book by an American of whom he knew
nothing. Even Dr. William writes with a tone of mild
surprise when he speaks of the terrific <foreign rend='italic'>volte-face</foreign> which
he thinks Sun Yat-sen performed.
</p>

<p>
There are two necessary comments to be made on the
question of the influence of Maurice William. In the
first place, Sun Yat-sen had never swerved from the interpretation
of history by <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>, which may be interpreted as
the humane or social interpretation of history. Enough
of the old Chinese ideology has been outlined above to
make clear what this outlook was.<note place='foot'>See above, Chapter One, second, third, and fourth sections.</note> Sun Yat-sen, in short,
never having been a Marxian, was not converted to the
social interpretation of history as put forth by Dr. William.
He found in the latter's book, perhaps more clearly
than in any other Western work an analysis of society
that coincided with his own, which he had developed from
the old Chinese philosophy and morality as rendered by
Confucius. Consequently he said of William's rejection
of the materialistic interpretation of history, <q>That
sounds perfectly reasonable ... the greatest discovery
of the American scholar <emph>fits in perfectly</emph> with the (third)
<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>
principle of our Party.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 423.</note> The accomplishment of Maurice
William, therefore, was a great one, but one which
has been misunderstood. He formulated a doctrine of
social evolution which tallied perfectly with Chinese ideology,
and did this without being informed on Chinese
thought. He did not change the main currents of Sun's
thought, which were consistent through the years. He did
present Sun with several telling supplementary arguments
in Western economic terms, by means of which he could
reconcile his interpretation of social history not only with
Confucian <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign> but also with modern Western economics.
</p>

<p>
The other point to be considered in relation to Maurice
William is a matter of dates. The thesis of Maurice William,
that Sun Yat-sen, after having turned Marxian or
near-Marxian, was returned to democratic liberal thought
by William's book, is based on contrast of the first twelve
lectures in the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> and the last four on <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign>. Dr. William believes that Sun read his book in
the meantime and changed his mind. A Chinese commentator
points out that Sun Yat-sen referred to <hi rend='italic'>The Social
Interpretation of History</hi> in a speech on January 21,
1924; his first lecture on the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> was given
January 24, 1924.<note place='foot'>Tsui, cited, pp. 121-123, n. 72.</note> Hence, in the twelve lectures that Dr.
William interprets as Marxian, Sun Yat-sen was speaking
from a background which included not only Marxism, but
<hi rend='italic'>The Social Interpretation of History</hi>, as well.
</p>

<p>
Only on the third part does the influence of the Western
thinkers appear unmistakably. Henry George gave
Sun Yat-sen the idea of the unearned increment, but Sun
Yat-sen, instead of accepting the whole body of doctrine
that George put forth, simply kept this one idea, and built
a novel land-policy of his own on it. Marxism may have
influenced the verbal tone of Sun Yat-sen's lectures, but
it did not affect his ideology, although it shows a definite
<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>
imprint upon his programs. Maurice William gave Sun
Yat-sen a set of arguments in modern economic terms
which he attached to his ideological thesis of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign> interpretation
of history, which he based upon Confucianism.
There is no evidence to show that at any time in his
life Sun Yat-sen abandoned his Chinese ideological
orientation and fell under the sway of any Western
thinker. The strong consistency in the ideology of Sun
Yat-sen is a consistency rooted in the old Chinese ideology.
On minor points of doctrine he showed the influence
of the West; this influence cannot be considered
solely by itself. The present discussion of Western influences
may, by its length, imply a disproportionate emphasis
of Western thought in the political doctrines of
Sun Yat-sen, but in a work written primarily for Westerners,
this may be found excusable.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf' level1="Min Sheng as a Socio-Economic Doctrine."/>
<head><foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min Shêng</foreign> as a Socio-Economic Doctrine.</head>

<p>
If one were to attempt to define the relations of the
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> ideology to the various types of Western economic
doctrines at present current, certain misapprehensions
may be eliminated at the outset. First: Capitalism
in its Western form was opposed by Sun Yat-sen; <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign> was to put through the national economic revolution
of enrichment through a deliberately-planned industrialization,
but in doing so was to prevent China from
going through all the painful stages which attended the
growth of capitalism in the West. <q>We want,</q> said Sun
Yat-sen, <q>a preventive remedy; a remedy which will
thwart the accumulation of large private capitals and so
preserve future society from the great inconvenience of
the inequality between rich and poor.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 472.</note> And yet he
looked forward to a society which would ultimately be
communistic, although never in its strict Marxian sense.
<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>
<q>We may say that communism is the ideal of livelihood,
and that the doctrine of livelihood is the practical application
of communism; such is the difference between the
doctrine of Marx and the doctrine of the Kuomintang. In
the last analysis, there is no real difference in the principles
of the two; where they differ is in method.</q><note place='foot'>Hsü translation, cited, p. 422. The Hsü version will be cited from
time to time, whenever Father d'Elia's interesting neologisms might make
the citation too disharmonious, in wording, with the comment.</note> This
is sufficient to show that Sun Yat-sen was not an orthodox
Western apologist for capitalism; as a Chinese, it would
have been hard for him to be one, for the logically consistent
capitalist ideology is one which minimizes all human
relationships excepting those individual-contractual
ones based on money bargains. The marketing of goods
and services in such a way as to disturb the traditional
forms of Chinese society would have been repugnant to
Sun Yat-sen.
</p>

<p>
Second: if Sun Yat-sen's <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> ideology cannot be
associated with capitalism, it can as little be affiliated
with Marxism or the single-tax. What, then, in relation
to Western socio-economic thought, is it? We have seen
that the state it proposed was liberal-protective, and that
the society from which it was derived and to which it was
to lead back was one of extreme laissez-faire, bordering
almost on anarchism. These political features are enough
to distinguish it from the Western varieties of socialism,
anarchism and syndicalism, since the ingredients of these
ideologies of the West and that of Sun Yat-sen, while
coincident on some points, cannot be fitted together.
</p>

<p>
Superficially, there is a certain resemblance between the
ideology of the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> and that of Fascism. The
resemblances may be found in the emphasis on the nation,
the rejection of the class war and of Marxism, the
upholding of tradition, and the inclusion of a doctrine of
intellectual inequality. But Sun Yat-sen seeks to reconcile
<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>
all this with democracy in a form even more republican
than that of the United States. The scheme of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
ch'üan</foreign>, with its election, recall, initiative and referendum,
and with its definite demands of intellectual freedom, is
in contradiction to the teachings of Fascism. His condemnation
of Caesarism is unequivocal: <q>Therefore, if the
Chinese Revolution has not until now been crowned with
success, it is because the ambitions for the throne have not
been completely rooted out nor suppressed altogether.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 294.</note>
With these fundamental and irreconcilable distinctions, it
is hard to find any possibility of agreement between the
<hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> and the Fascist ideologies, although the
transitional program of the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>&mdash;in its advocacy
of provisional party dictatorship, etc.&mdash;has something
in common with Fascism as well as with Communism as
applied in the Soviet Union.
</p>

<p>
A recent well-received work on modern political
thought describes a category of Western thinkers whose
ideas are much in accord with those contained in the
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> ideology.<note place='foot'>Francis W. Coker, <hi rend='italic'>Recent Political Thought</hi>, New York&mdash;London,
1934, pp. 545-562, Ch. XX, <q>Empirical Collectivism.</q></note> Professor Francis W. Coker of
Yale, after reviewing the leading types of socialist and
liberal thought, describes a group who might be called
<q>empirical collectivists.</q> The men to whom he applies
this term reject socialist doctrines of economic determinism,
labor-created value, and class war. They oppose, on
the other hand, the making of a fetish of private ownership,
and recognize that the vast mass of ordinary men in
modern society do not always receive their just share of
the produce of industry. They offer no single panacea for
all economic troubles, and lay down no absolute and unchallengeable
dogma concerning the rightness or wrongness
of public or private ownership.<note place='foot'>Coker, cited, pp. 546-547.</note> Professor Coker
<pb n='148'/><anchor id='Pg148'/>
outlines their general point of view by examining their
ideas with reference to several conspicuous economic problems
of the present day: public ownership; labor legislation;
regulation of prices; taxation; and land policies.<note place='foot'>Coker, cited, pp. 548-549. Throughout the discussion of empirical
collectivism the present author will cite, by and large, the categories given
by Coker. Any special exceptions will be noted, but otherwise the discussion
will be based on Coker's chapter on <q>Empirical Collectivism,</q>
cited above.</note>
</p>

<p>
According to Coker, the empirical collectivist is not
willing to forgo the profit motive except where necessary.
He is anxious to see a great part of the ruthlessness of
private competition eliminated, and capital generally subjected
to a regulation which will prevent its use as an instrument
of harm to the community as a whole. While
not committed to public ownership of large enterprises
as a matter of theory, he has little objection to the governmental
operation of those which could, as a matter of
practical expediency, be managed by the state on a nonprofit
basis.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's position greatly resembles this, with respect
to his more immediate objectives. Speaking of public
utilities, he said to Judge Linebarger: <q>There are so
many public utilities needed in China at the present time,
that the government can't monopolize all of them for the
advantage of the masses. Moreover, public utilities involve
risks which a government cannot afford to take.
Although the risks are comparatively small in single cases,
the entire aggregate of such risks, if assumed by the government,
would be of crushing proportions. Private initiative
and capital can best perform the public utility development
of China. We should, however, be very careful
to limit the control of these public utilities enterprises,
while at the same time encouraging private development
as much as possible.</q><note place='foot'>Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi>, cited, Book III, p. 31.</note> Sun had, however, already spoken
of nationalization: <q>I think that when I hold power
<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>
again, we should institute a nationalization program
through a cautious and experimental evolution of (1)
public utilities; (2) public domains; (3) industrial combines,
syndicates, and cartels; (4) coöperative department
stores and other merchandising agencies.</q><note place='foot'>Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi>, cited, Book III, p. 30.</note> It must be
remembered that there were two considerations back of
anything that Sun Yat-sen said concerning national ownership:
first, China had already ventured into broad national
ownership of communications and transport, even though
these were in bad condition and heavily indebted; second,
there was no question of expropriation of capital, but
rather the free alternative of public and private industry.
An incidental problem that arises in connection with the
joint development of the country by public and by private
capital is the use of foreign capital. Sun Yat-sen was opposed
to imperialism, but he did not believe that the use
of foreign capital at fair rates of interest constituted submission
to imperialism. He said, in Canton, <q> ... we
shall certainly have to borrow foreign capital in order to
develop means of communication and transportation, and
we cannot do otherwise than have recourse to those foreigners
who are men of knowledge and of experience to
manage these industries.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 475.</note> It may thus be said that Sun
Yat-sen had no fixed prejudice against private capital or
against foreign capital, when properly and justly regulated,
although in general he favored the ownership of
large enterprises by the state.
</p>

<p>
Second&mdash;to follow again Professor Coker&mdash;the Western
empirical collectivists favor labor legislation, and government
intervention for the protection of the living standards
of the working classes. This, while it did not figure
<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>
conspicuously in the theories of Sun Yat-sen,<note place='foot'>See, however, the d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 298-301, for a reference
to labor unions and a statement for their need of competent and
honest leadership.</note> was a
striking feature of all his practical programs.<note place='foot'>See Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, cited, <q>Die Arbeiter,</q> pp. 97-99. T'ang,
Hsü, and the various biographies of Sun almost all contain references
from time to time to Sun's friendliness toward and approval of organized
labor.</note> In his
address to Chinese labor, on the international Labor Day,
1924, he urged that Chinese labor organize in order to
fight for its own cause and that of national liberation.
It had nothing to fear from Chinese capitalism, but everything
from foreign imperialistic capitalism.<note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, cited, pp. 325-329. The next speech of Sun
Yat-sen given in Wittfogel's work is Sun's indignant attack on <q>the so-called
Labor Government</q> of England, which permitted the old methods
of British Far Eastern imperialism to continue.</note> Sun did not
make a special hero class out of the workers; he did, however,
advocate their organization for the purpose of getting
their just share of the national wealth, and for
resistance to the West and Japan.
</p>

<p>
Third, the empirical collectivist tends to advocate price-control
by the state, if not over the whole range of commodities,
at least in certain designated fields. Sun was,
has been stated, in favor of the regulation of capital at
all points, and of public ownership in some. This naturally
implies an approval of price-control. He more specifically
objected to undue profits by middlemen, when, in
discussing salesmen, he said: <q>Under ideal conditions,
society does not need salesmen or any inducement to buy.
If a thing is good, and the price reasonable, it should
sell itself on its own merits without any salesmanship.
This vast army of middlemen should hence be made to
remember that they should expect no more from the nonproductive
calling in which they are engaged than any
other citizen obtains through harder labor.</q><note place='foot'>Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi>, cited, Book III, p. 18. This work, while
it cannot be given the weight of direct quotations from Sun's own writings
or speeches, does contain a good deal about the policies of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>
which does not appear elsewhere. The author has sought to avoid citation
of it where direct sources are available, since the nature of the material
makes it by no means so authoritative as others might be.</note> In this, too,
<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> coincides with empirical collectivism; the coincidence
is made easy by the relative vagueness of the
latter.
</p>

<p>
Fourth, in the words of Mr. Coker, <q>many collectivists
look upon taxation as a rational and practical means for
reducing extreme differences in wealth and for achieving
other desired economic changes.</q><note place='foot'>Coker, cited, p. 551.</note> Sun Yat-sen agrees
with this definitely; his land policy is one based upon
taxation and confiscation of the amount of the unearned
increment (which, not involving the confiscation of the
land itself, is perhaps also taxation), and proposes to
apply taxes extensively. Quite apart from the question of
distributive justice, a heavy tax burden would be necessary
in a country which was being rigorously developed.
</p>

<p>
Fifth, empirical collectivists believe in land control,
not only in the cities, but in the open country as well, as a
matter of agrarian reform. We have seen that the land
figured extensively in the ideology of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, and
shall observe that Sun Yat-sen, in his plans for <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>,
stressed the importance of proper control of land.
</p>

<p>
In summing up the theory of distributive justice which
forms a third part of the principle of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, one
may say that, as far as any comparison between a Chinese
and a Western idea is valid, the positive social-revolutionary
content of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> coincides with the doctrines
of that group of Western politico-economic writers whom
Coker calls empirical collectivists. The correspondence
between the two may not be a mere coincidence of names,
for in considering Sun Yat-sen's <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, one is struck
by the empirical, almost opportunistic, nature of the
<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>
theory. A great part of the activity of the Chinese,
whether material or intellectual, has been characterized
by a sort of opportunism; not necessarily an opportunism
of insincerity, it may be more aptly described as a tendency
to seek the golden mean, the reasonable in any situation.
It is this habit of compromise with circumstance, this
bland and happy disregard of absolutes in theory, which
has preserved&mdash;with rare exceptions&mdash;the Chinese social
mind from the torment of any really bitter and profound
religious conflict, and which may, in these troubled times,
keep even the most irreconcilable enemies from becoming
insane with intolerance. This fashion of muddling through,
of adhering to certain traditional general rules of reasonableness,
while rendering lip-service to the doctrines of
the moment, has been the despair of many Western students
of China, who, embittered at the end, accuse the
Chinese of complete insincerity. They do not realize that
it is the moderateness of the Confucian ideology, the humane
and conciliatory outlook that centuries of cramped
civilized life have given the Chinese, that is the basis of
this, and that this indisposition to adopt hard and fast
systems has been one of the ameliorating influences in the
present period of serious intellectual antagonisms. Generalizations
concerning China are rarely worth much. It
may be, however, that the doctrine of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, with
respect to its positive socio-economic content, may appear
vague to the Western student, and that he may surmise it
to be a mere cloak for demagogues. It could easily do
that in the West, or in the hands of insincere and unscrupulous
leaders. In China, however, it need not necessarily
have been formulated more positively than it was,
because, as we have seen, the intellectual temper of the
Chinese makes any strict adherence to a schedule or a plan
impossible. It is easy, always, to render the courtesies; it
is hard to follow the specific content. Sun Yat-sen apparently
<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>
realized this, and wished to leave a general body of
doctrine which could be followed and which would not be
likely to be violated. In any case, the theses of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>,
both ideologically and programmatically, can scarcely be
contrasted with the detailed schedules of social revolution
to be found in the West.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's frequent expressions of sympathy with
communism and socialism, and his occasional identification
of the large principles of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> with them, are
an indication of his desire for ultimate collectivism. (It
may be remarked, in passing, that Sun Yat-sen used the
word <emph>collectivist</emph> in a much more rigid sense than that
employed by Coker.) His concessions to the economic
situation of his time, the pragmatic, practical method in
which he conceived and advocated his plans, are a manifestation
of the empirical element in his collectivism.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Ming shêng</foreign> cannot, however, be thought of as another
Western doctrine for national economic strength, national
economic reconstitution, and national distributive
justice; it is also a program for the improvement of the
morale of the people.
</p>

<p>
How is the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> doctrine to fit in with the essentially
conservative spirit of the nationalist ideology? If,
as Sun proposed, the new ideology is to be compounded
of the old morality, the old knowledge, and modern
physical science, how is <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, referring to social as
well as material programs, to be developed in harmony
with the old knowledge? In the terminology of ultramodern
Western political science, the ethical, the moral,
and the emotional are likely to appear as words of derision.
In a milieu characterized by the curiously warmblooded
social outlook of the Confucians, such terms are
still relevant to reality, still significant in the lives of
men. The sentimental is intangible in politics; for that
reason it is hard to fit into contemporary thought, but
<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>
though it cannot be measured and fully understood, its
potency cannot be disregarded; and for Sun Yat-sen it
was of the utmost importance.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf' level1="Min Sheng as an Ethical Doctrine."/>
<head><foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min Shêng</foreign> as an Ethical Doctrine.</head>

<p>
Reference has been made to the Confucian doctrine of
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>, the fellow-feeling of all mankind&mdash;each man's consciousness
of membership in society. This doctrine was
formulated in a society unacquainted with Greek logic,
nor did it have the strange European emphasis upon sheer
intellectuality which has played its way through Western
thought. Not, of course, as profoundly introspective as
Christianity, nor appealing so distinctly to the mystical in
man's nature, it was nevertheless concerned with man's
inner life, as well as with the ethics of his outward behavior.
The Confucian was suffused throughout with the
idea of virtue; the moral and the physical were inextricably
intertwined. Its non-logical content scarcely approached
the form of a religion; commentators on the old
ideology have not called it religious, despite the prominence
of beliefs in the supernatural.<note place='foot'>E. D. Harvey, <hi rend='italic'>The Mind of China</hi>, New Haven, 1933, deals extensively
with these supernatural elements. The reader who turns to it should
keep in mind the fact that the supernatural plays a rôle in China distinctly
less important than that which it did, say, in medieval Europe, and
that a strong agnostic, rather than a skeptical, spirit among the Chinese
has preserved them from the grossest errors of superstition.</note> The religion of the
Chinese has been this-worldly,<note place='foot'>Latourette, cited, p. 129. Dr. Latourette's sketch of Chinese religious
thought is especially good, as indeed it might be, since he is one of the
most celebrated American scholars in the field of Western religion in
China.</note> but it has not on that
account been indifferent to the subjective aspects of the
moral life.<note place='foot'>H. G. Creel, work cited, p. 127.</note>
</p>

<p>
The nationalist ideology was designed as the inheritor
of and successor to, the old ideology of China. The doctrine
<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>
of nationalism narrowed the field of the application
of Confucianism from the whole civilized world to the
state-ized society of the Chinese race-nation. The doctrine
of democracy implemented the old teachings of popular
power and intellectual leadership with a political mechanism
designed to bring forth the full strength of both.
And the doctrine of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> was the economic application
of the old social ethos.
</p>

<p>
It is in this last significance, rather than in any of its
practical meanings of recovery, development, and reform,
that Sun Yat-sen spoke most of it to one of his followers.<note place='foot'>The author cannot give a documentary citation for this observation.
It was communicated to him many times by his father, Judge Paul Linebarger,
who stated that Sun Yat-sen was most apt to talk in terms of
morality and morale by preference. The fact that Sun Yat-sen came from
a Chinese Confucian background into a Western Christian one cannot be
ignored. He did not permit his Christianity to sway him from what he
considered his necessary lines of behavior in politics; it did not, for
example, prevent him from being extremely cordial to the Soviet Union
at the time that that state was still more or less outcaste. And yet, speaking
of the Christian God, he is reputably reported to have said: <q>God
sent me to China to free her from bondage and oppression, and I have
not been disobedient to the Heavenly mission</q>; and, again, to have said
on the day before his death: <q>I am a Christian; God sent me to fight
evil for my people. Jesus was a revolutionist; so am I.</q> (Both quotations
from appendix to the d'Elia translation, p. 718.)</note>
He was concerned with it as a moral force. His work
was, among other things, a work of moral transformation
of individual motives.<note place='foot'>Sun Yat-sen authorized the biography, cited, which Judge Linebarger
wrote of him. It was a propaganda work, and neither he nor the author
had any particular expectation that it would ever be regarded as a source,
or as an academically prepared document. The last chapter of this
authorized biography bears the title, <q>Conclusion: Sun the Moral Force.</q>
This, perhaps, is significant as to Sun's own attitude.</note> <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min shêng</foreign> must, in addition to
its other meanings be regarded as an attempt to extend
the Chinese ideology to economic matters, to lead the
Chinese to follow their old ethics. Sun Yat-sen had ample
time in his visits to the West to observe the ravages that
modern civilization had inflicted upon the older Western
<pb n='156'/><anchor id='Pg156'/>
moral life, and did not desire that China should also
follow the same course. The humanity of the old tradition
must be kept by the Chinese in their venture into the
elaborate and dangerous economy of modern life; the
machine civilization was needed, and was itself desirable,<note place='foot'>Note the contrast between the thought of Sun in this respect and that
of Tagore or Gandhi. This has been pointed out by many Western
writers on China.</note>
but it could not overthrow the humane civilization
that preceded it and was to continue on beneath and
throughout it.
</p>

<p>
In this manner a follower of Sun Yat-sen seeks to recall
his words: <q>I should say that <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> focuses
our ethical tradition even more than the other two principles;
after a Chinese has become nationalistic and democratic,
he will become socialized through the idea of his
own personality as an instrument of good for human welfare.
In this proud feeling of importance to and for the
world, egotism gives way to altruism.... So, I say
again that <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> is an ethical endeavor ... this,
the final principle (and yet, the first principle which I
discovered, in the bitterness and poverty of my boyhood
days), will come imperceptibly into our lives.</q><note place='foot'>Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi>, cited, Book III, p. 20.</note>
</p>

<p>
In a philosophy for intellectuals such attitudes need
not, perhaps, be reckoned with; in an ideology for revolution
and reconstitution, perhaps they should. Sun Yat-sen
conceived of his own work and his ideology not only
as political acts but as moral forces; <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> was at
once to invigorate the national economy, to industrialize
the material civilization, and to institute distributive justice,
and in addition to this, it was to open a new, humane
epoch in economic relations. That is why the term,
instead of being translated, is left in the Chinese: <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign>.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='157'/><anchor id='Pg157'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter V. The Programs of Nationalism.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Kuomintang.</head>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen was a political leader as well as a political
philosopher. His growth as a thinker was intimately associated
with the development of his political activities. It
would be difficult to say which came first, either in time
or in importance, in his life&mdash;his teachings or his work.
At times the line between the two becomes vague. Sun
made vital commitments concerning his ideology in furthering
his revolutionary work. These have to be sifted
out from other utterances bearing only upon the immediate
situation. This is not easy, but neither is it impossible.
Lyon Sharman wrote, <q>It might be cogently argued
that, in dealing with an easily absorbent, propagandist
mind like Sun Yat-sen's one should not look to the shifting
ideas for his real opinions, but to those formulations
which he clung to tenaciously all his life.</q><note place='foot'>Sharman, cited, p. 282.</note>
</p>

<p>
The ideology of the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> provides a broad
scheme of terms and values by means of which the Chinese
of the twentieth century could orient themselves simultaneously
in the modern world and in the continuing
world of Confucian civilization. Between this philosophy
and the necessity of immediate practical action there
stands an intermediate step&mdash;that of the plans. The plans
provide a theory of means leading to the establishment of
the ends set up in the ideology. The ideology, left on
paper by itself, could not bring about China's salvation;
it had to be spread and implemented with political action.
Sun Yat-sen planned the programs and activities of the
Chinese revolutionaries in some detail; he proposed policies
<pb n='158'/><anchor id='Pg158'/>
reaching far out into the future. While, since his
death, these plans have been modified to a greater or less
degree,<note place='foot'>The reader must bear in mind the fact that what is presented here is
Sun Yat-sen's political program for China. In many instances the course
of affairs has deviated quite definitely from that program, and it can be
only a matter of conjecture as to what Sun Yat-sen would do were he to
return and observe the Nationalist movement as it now is. It is manifestly
impossible to trace all the changes in this program. The actual
developments have conformed only in part with Sun Yat-sen's plans,
although the leaders seek to have it appear as though they are following
as close to Sun Yat-sen's democratic politics as they can. Many persons
who were close to Sun Yat-sen, such as Mme. Sun Yat-sen, believe that
the National Government has betrayed the theory of Sun Yat-sen, and that
Generalissimo Chiang Chieh-shih has made himself the autocrat of the
National Government. It is, of course, impossible within the scope of this
thesis to enter into this dispute. Who rules the Soviet&mdash;Stalin, or the
Communist Party? Who rules China&mdash;Chiang Chieh-shih, or the Kuomintang?
In each case there is the question of whether the leader could
get along without the party, and whether the party could get along without
the leader, as well as the question of the leader's sincerity. These
issues, however burning they might be in real life, could not be adequately
treated in a work such as this. The author has sought to present Sun
Yat-sen's theory of applied politics. Where events which Sun Yat-sen
foresaw have come to pass, the author has referred to them. He does not
wish to be understood as presenting a description of the whole course of
events in China.</note> they have not lost all relevance to the course of
affairs in China, and, in any case, possess an interest of
their own in the history of political thought, as illustrating
the political doctrines to which Sun Yat-sen's ideology
led him. The first problem the plans had to include was
that of providing a tool by which they could be set in
motion.
</p>

<p>
What instrument could preach nationalism to the Chinese
people and awaken them, and, having awakened
them, lead them on to a victorious defense of their race
and civilization? Sun's answer was: <q>The Kuomintang.</q>
The nationalist revolutionary party was the designated
heir to the leadership of the people, and even in his life-time
Sun Yat-sen worked through the party that was
almost entirely his own creation.
</p>

<pb n='159'/><anchor id='Pg159'/>

<p>
This party had begun as a small group of the personal
followers of Sun Yat-sen in the days when he was struggling
against the Manchu monarchy almost singlehanded.
Gradually this group increased and became a federation
of the great secret orders which had resisted the Manchus
for centuries. It developed into a modern parliamentary
party under the name <hi rend='italic'>Kuomintang</hi>&mdash;literally <emph>nation people
party</emph>&mdash;with the inauguration of the first republic, but
was soon driven underground by the would-be emperor
Yüan Shih-k'ai. It emerged again in South China at the
end of the World War, was reorganized after the Communist
model (so far as intra-party organization was concerned)
before the death of Sun Yat-sen, led the revolution
to the North, and, now, though somewhat less united
than before, rules the greater part of China in the name
of the Three Principles.<note place='foot'>Here, again, one must remember that Mme. Sun Yat-sen, Eugene
Chen, and others charge that the Party no longer rules, that it has been
prostituted by Chiang Chieh-shih, and now serves only to cloak a military
despotism. It may be noted, so far as the other side of the question is
concerned, that a greater number of the persons who were eminent in the
Party before Sun Yat-sen died have remained in it than have left it.</note>
</p>

<p>
Confucius preached the slow transformation of society
by means of an intellectual leaven, scholar class, which,
by re-forming and clarifying the ideology, could gradually
minimize conflict among men and bring about an epoch
of concord in which all men would live by reason as
found in tradition. The function of the Kuomintang was,
in Sun's mind, only remotely similar. The Kuomintang
was designed to intervene in a chaos of wars and corrupt
politics, to propagate the nationalist ideology, and avert
a tragic fate which would otherwise be inevitable&mdash;the
disappearance of China from the map of the world, and
the extinction not only of Chinese civilization but&mdash;as
Sun Yat-sen thought&mdash;of the Chinese race as well.
</p>

<p>
In the days before the downfall of the monarchy, and
<pb n='160'/><anchor id='Pg160'/>
for the few years of defeat under the first republic, the
Kuomintang was not highly organized. Sun Yat-sen's
genius for leadership, and the fervor of his adherents&mdash;which
can be understood only at first-hand, and cannot
be explained in rational terms&mdash;were sufficient to hold
the party together. But there was far too much discord
as to final principles as well as to points of immediate
action, and party activities were not so specialized as to
permit maximum efficiency.<note place='foot'>See T'ang, work cited for an excellent description of the mutations
of the revolutionary party. T'ang criticizes the present personnel of the
Kuomintang severely, but the reader must keep in mind the fact that he
has since become reconciled with the present leadership, and make allowances
for the somewhat emphatic indignation voiced at the time of writing
the book. The brilliance of the author guarantees that the story is well
told, but it is not told for the last time. See also, Min-ch'ien T. Z. Tyau,
<hi rend='italic'>Two Years of Nationalist China</hi>, Shanghai, 1930, for a summary that is
as excellent as it is short. Various changes have occurred in party function,
organization, and personnel since that time, but they have not&mdash;to the
knowledge of the author&mdash;been completely and adequately covered by any
one work.</note> Furthermore, there was the
question of the relations of the party and the state. It was
somewhat absurd for the partizans of Sun Yat-sen, having
brought about the revolution, to stand back and let whomever
would walk away with it. The party's power had
ebbed with its success in 1911. There had to be some way
of keeping the party in power after it had achieved the
overthrow of its enemies, and won the revolutionary control
of the country. Reorganization was definitely necessary
if party effectiveness were to be raised to the point of
guaranteeing the success of the next revolution&mdash;which
Sun did not live to see&mdash;and party supremacy to the point
of assuring the Nationalists control of the government
after the revolution had been accomplished.
</p>

<p>
Reorganization was effected through the assistance of
the Communists during the period of the Canton-Moscow
entente (1923-1927).<note place='foot'>For a history of this period, see T'ang, Sharman, or Tsui Shu-chin,
all cited above. The Communist side of the story is told by Harold Isaacs
(editor), <hi rend='italic'>Five Years of Kuomintang Reaction</hi>, Shanghai, 1932, and in the
various works of the Stalinist and Trotskyist groups concerning the intervention
of the Third Internationale in China. Two graphic personal
accounts cast in semi-fictional form, are Oscar Erdberg, <hi rend='italic'>Tales of Modern
China</hi>, Moscow, 1932, and Vincent Sheean, <hi rend='italic'>Personal History</hi>, New York,
1935; these present the Communist and the left-liberal viewpoints, respectively.
The dramatic story of the Entente, the separation, and the ensuing
conflict are not yet remote enough to have cooled into material ready for
the historian.</note> Under the leadership of the
<pb n='161'/><anchor id='Pg161'/>
extraordinarily able Michael Borodin, the Soviet advisers
sent from Russia completely re-shaped the internal structure
of the Kuomintang and won for themselves positions
of considerable confidence and influence, which they lost
only when they attempted to transform the principles and
objectives of the Party as thoroughly as they had the
organization.
</p>

<p>
The Kuomintang of today, which is irreconcilably opposed
to Marxism, still bears the imprint of Communist
design.<note place='foot'>The Kuomintang, in accepting the Communist administrative structure,
was not violating traditional Chinese patterns altogether. It has been
pointed out that the revised structure of the Kuomintang resembled older
Chinese guild patterns as well as the new Russian style (Sharman, work
cited, p. 262).</note> Though the working details of the Party organization
do not, for the most part, appear directly relevant
to the principle of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min ch'üan</foreign> of Sun Yat-sen, the arrangements
for Party control illustrate the curious compromise
between Chinese and Western democratic patterns,
on the one hand, and the revolutionary requirements
of absolutism, on the other, which have made Chinese
republicanism seem a sham, if not a farce, to Western
scholars who expect to find in China the same openness
and freedom in democratic government to which
they are accustomed at home.
</p>

<p>
During the life-time of Sun there was no question of
an elective headship for the Party. In spite of the fact
that the party stood for democracy, it seemed impossible
<pb n='162'/><anchor id='Pg162'/>
that any alternative to Sun Yat-sen himself should be
considered. Sun Yat-sen's complete willingness to continue
as head of the Party without troubling to have himself
elected from time to time has been variously interpreted:
his friends term it the humble and natural recognition
of a celebrated fact; his enemies regard it as the
hallucination of an egotism as distorted as it was colossal.
The truth would appear to be that Sun regarded the initiation
and the guidance of the Nationalist revolution as his
particular mission in life. He was, in a sense, the intellectual
proprietor of the Three Principles. Unselfish in
all personal matters, he had few doubts of his own capacity
when he had discovered what he believed to be his
duty, and unquestioningly set out to perform it. In the
lawlessness and tumult of the revolution, it would have
seemed absurd for Sun Yat-sen to submit to the periodical
formula of reëlection for the sake of any merely theoretical
harmony of action and theory.
</p>

<p>
Not only was Sun Yat-sen the leader of the Party; he
was not even to have a successor. The first revised constitution
of the Kuomintang provided for his life-time
headship; the second stipulated that the post of <hi rend='italic'>Tsung Li</hi>
should never be filled by any other person. As <hi rend='italic'>Tsung Li</hi>&mdash;the
Party Leader, it is still customary to refer to Sun Yat-sen
in China today. This, again, was not the display of a
superhuman vanity so much as a practical requirement
designed to offset the possibility of conflict and intrigue
among the most conspicuous party chiefs, which would
quite probably arise should the question of a succession
to Sun Yat-sen ever be mentioned. There was, of course,
the element of respect in this gesture&mdash;the implication
that the magistral chair of Sun Yat-sen was too high a
place for any common man to sit.
</p>

<p>
So far as leadership was concerned the Kuomintang
was an autocracy until the death of Sun Yat-sen. In all
<pb n='163'/><anchor id='Pg163'/>
other party matters attempts were made to cultivate democratic
form and instil democratic morale. The prudence
of this choice may seem to have been borne out by the
course of history, since the Communists did not become
ambitious, nor the Nationalists jealous, to the point of
open conflict until after the death of Sun Yat-sen. Western
thought will have to make extensive allowances before
it can comprehend a democratic Party which operated
under the unquestioned authority of a single man,
without recourse to the formula of a plebiscite or election
to a boss-ship in the form of a nominal post made significant
only by the personal conspicuousness of the incumbent.
</p>

<p>
Had Karl Marx lived to work in the Russian Revolution,
he might have occupied a position analogous to that
which Sun Yat-sen did in the Chinese. In other respects
the new Kuomintang organization was remarkably like
the Communist. There was the extraordinarily complex,
but somehow effective, mechanism of a Party Congress, a
Central Executive Committee, and a Standing Committee.
There was a Political Bureau and an agency for overseas
agitation. There were also the wide ramifications of an
extensive net work of auxiliary organizations designed to
draw strength from every popular enthusiasm, and deflect
it to the cause of the Nationalist revolution. In due time
these agencies were turned about and swung into action
against the Communists who had attempted to master
them.
</p>

<p>
The precise details of Kuomintang organization need
not be described. In general the pattern of authority proceeded
from the whole membership, by a sequence of indirect
elections, to the inner group of the Central Executive
Committee, a body which possesses as much power in
China as does its Soviet prototype.<note place='foot'>Here, again, one might refer to the disputes as to the orthodoxy and
integrity of the present leadership. The preëminence of Generalissimo
Chiang Chieh-shih, which cannot be doubted, is seen by persons friendly
to him as a strong and beneficent influence upon the C. E. C. Persons
hostile to him charge that he has packed the C. E. C. with his adherents,
and controls it as he chooses.</note> An instance of its
<pb n='164'/><anchor id='Pg164'/>
power may be given: representatives are sent by the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>tang
pu</foreign> (Party Branches) to the Party Congress; in the event
that delegates do not or cannot come, the C. E. C. has the
power of appointing persons to serve <foreign rend='italic'>pro tempore</foreign> as the
representatives of the otherwise unrepresented branches.
Since the same committee examines delegates' credentials,
it is apparent that the trustworthiness of the Party Congress
can be assured in the same manner that, to the
understanding of the present author, the earlier All-Union
Congresses of Soviets and the C. P. were assured in the
Russian Revolution. The pattern given the Kuomintang
by the Russians gave the Party a strong central control
able to assure orthodoxy within the Party; for some years,
as a matter of history, differences of opinion within the
Party could only be expressed by schism (as in the case of
the <q>Kuomintang</q> of Wang Ch'ing-wei). While the
aim of the Party was democracy, it cannot be said truthfully
that democracy worked in a militant Party engaged
in turning an anarchy into a revolution. The requirements
of revolutionary endeavor, among other things,
seem to include an iron-handed leadership of the right
sort. Such leadership could, in the Sun Yat-sen ideology,
be justified by reference to the three stages of the revolution.
</p>

<p>
The Kuomintang remained, so far as leadership was
concerned, the creature of Sun Yat-sen. In structure it
was extensively reorganized to resemble the Communist
hierarchy found in Russia, with the administrative and
legislative systems united into grades of conferences and
committees. The Kuomintang also took over the Communist
system of a registered and disciplined membership.
To the time of the reorganization in 1923-1924, the
<pb n='165'/><anchor id='Pg165'/>
Party had apparently admitted and expelled members in
the informal, but effective, manner employed by the old
Chinese <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign>&mdash;associations; guilds; or <q>tongs</q>&mdash;for centuries.<note place='foot'>An interesting piece of research could deal with the method of recruitment
and registration in the Kuomintang before the coming of the Communist
advisers. There was rarely any doubt as to who was, or was not,
a member, but there was constant trouble as to the good standing of
members. Recruitment seems to have been on a basis of oath-taking,
initiation, etc.; what Party discipline there was seems to have been applied
only in the most extreme cases, and then crudely.</note>
Without a complete system of personnel book-keeping,
it was impossible to keep adequate records of
the performance of each member and comb through the
membership for the purpose of eliminating undesirables
and inactives. At the time of the reorganization the membership
was required to be reënrolled; in many cases certificates
of membership were granted (in physical appearance
resembling a European passport) which, in view of
the Party power, entailed a considerable grant of privileges
with the more or less corresponding burden of
duties. Party finances notably improved. In time this systematic
method of recording membership was applied for
the purposes of ousting persons with Communist or pro-Communist
views, or eliminating individuals too friendly
with foreign interests believed antagonistic to the Party
or its purposes. <q>Party purges</q> have been frequent and
drastic since the organization of a complete membership
record.
</p>

<p>
The Kuomintang, as it was re-formed just before its
swift rise to power and as it has essentially remained since,
was a well-organized body of persons, subject to varying
degrees of Party discipline, and trained in the methods of
propaganda. The leadership was in the hands of Sun
Yat-sen and, after his death, in the hands of his most
trusted military and political aides. The membership,
drawn from all parts of China and the world, was made
<pb n='166'/><anchor id='Pg166'/>
up of persons from almost every class in society; representation
was on the Russian plan, tending to centralize
power in the C. E. C.<note place='foot'>It is interesting to note that the Kuomintang is to a certain degree
democratic in representing the various occupational groups in China.
Tyau, cited above, p. 25 and following, lists the percentages in the membership
in the Kuomintang according to occupation, as they stood in 1930:
Party work, 5.84%; government service, 6.61%; army and navy, 3.26%;
police, 4.09%; labor (in general), 7.32%; agriculture, 10.43%; navigation,
1.20%; railway, 1.14%; commerce, 10.47%; students, 10.47%;
teaching, 21.31%; independent professions, 1.66%; social work, 1.68%;
unemployed, O.54%; unclassified, 3.13%; incomplete returns, 15.09%.</note> Intra-party democracy was not,
for the most part, put into practice because of the disturbed
political and economic conditions. The Party and
its predecessors have, in the forty-odd years of their
combined existence, been facing what amounted to a state
of perpetual emergency. Sometimes badly, but more often
effectively, they have struggled to establish a state which
in turn can found the democratic ideology of Sun upon
which the democracy of the future must, they believe, be
based.
</p>

<p>
Sun did not state definitely that the Party was to be
dissolved after the task of its dictatorship was completed,
and China had won a stable democratic government. That
decision, of perpetuating the Party as one of many competing
parties in the new democracy, or of abolishing it
altogether, was presumably to be left to the Party leaders
of the time. A precedent may be found in the behavior of
Sun himself after the establishment of the Republic in
1912; he continued the Nationalist Party as one of the
chief parties in the parliamentary republic. Yüan Shih-k'ai
soon drove it underground again. From this it might be
possible to conclude that the Party having done with its
trusteeship, need not commit suicide as a party, but could
continue in some form or another.
</p>

<p>
The Kuomintang forms the link between the theories
of Sun and the realities of the revolutionary struggle;
<pb n='167'/><anchor id='Pg167'/>
it ties together his plans for a new democracy in China and
his strategies in the conflicts of the moment. First instrument
of the ideology, it bears the burden of bringing about
the revolution, and bringing the country to the stage of
testing the administrative and political theories of the
founder, and simultaneously inculcating the democratic
principle in the minds of those who are to bear the heritage
of Chinese organization and culture on to the future.
</p>

<p>
The genius of Sun Yat-sen, the Communist gift of
organization, and the fervor of the membership brought
about the defeat or submission&mdash;however nominal the
latter may have been&mdash;of the warlords. By what stages,
according to the theory of Sun Yat-sen, could national
unity be realized? What, given power, should the Kuomintang
do to guarantee the success of the revolution?
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Dragon Throne and State Allegiance.</head>

<p>
The first task which the Kuomintang, once established,
had to perform was a necessary preliminary to the other
portions of its work&mdash;such as the leading of the first steps
against the Western inroads, the opening up of the democratic
technique of government, and the initiation of the
first phases of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>. That task was to awaken the
Chinese to the fact that they were a nation, and not only
a nation, but an abused and endangered one as well.
</p>

<p>
We have seen that Sun Yat-sen regarded nationalism
as a precious treasure which the Chinese had lost.<note place='foot'>See above, pp. <ref target='Pg059'>59</ref> and following.</note> He
had said, many years before, in his <hi rend='italic'>Kidnapped in London</hi>,
that the Manchus had followed a deliberate policy of
intellectual suppression designed to extinguish or divert
Chinese nationalism, and to make the great masses of
Chinese on whom the Manchu power depended oblivious
to the fact that they were the humiliated slaves of alien
<pb n='168'/><anchor id='Pg168'/>
conquerors.<note place='foot'>Sun Yat-sen, <hi rend='italic'>Kidnapped in London</hi>, cited, <hi rend='italic'>passim</hi>.</note> Again, in the third lecture on nationalism,
he said that while the Emperors Kang Hsi and Ch'ien
Lung were at least honest in acknowledging themselves to
be Manchus, extenuating their presence on the Dragon
Throne by claiming the imperial hero-sages, Shun and
Wen Wang, of antiquity as fellow-barbarians, the Manchu
Emperors after Ch'ien Lung did everything they could to
suppress Chinese nationalist ideas. They even did not
hesitate to revise the classics of history in order to obliterate
whatever historical consciousness the Chinese may have
had of themselves.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 122-123.</note> Sun Yat-sen pointed out that the
strong group-consciousness of the Jews has kept Judea
living through the centuries, even though the Jewish state
was obliterated and the Jews themselves scattered to the
four winds. He also praised the Poles,<note place='foot'>The present instances are all taken from the third lecture on nationalism,
d'Elia translation, cited pp. 127-128. The Hsü translation, in spite
of its many merits, is not strong on geography. Thus, in the translation
referring to Poland which has just been cited, the Hsü reading runs:
<q>Although Persia was partitioned by foreigners over a century ago, Persian
nationalism was not lost; consequently the Persians have been able to
restore their country to independence; and now Persia has the status of a
second or third class power in Europe</q> (p. 208), this in spite of the fact
that Persia is translated correctly further on (p. 327). Another misreading
is: <q>After the war, two new Slavic states were born, namely Czechoslovakia
and Jugoslovakia</q> (p. 217). These minor errors are, however,
among the very few which can be discovered in the whole book, and do
not mar the text to any appreciable extent.</note> who were subjugated
by aliens as were the Chinese, but kept their
nationalist ideas and were consequently restored as an
honored nation after the world war. Hence, the first step
in the program of Chinese nationalism was to be the creation
of a consciousness of that nationalism. If the Chinese
did not regain their nationalism, <q>that precious treasure
which makes possible the subsistence of humanity,</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 132.</note> they
might meet the fate of the Miao tribes whom the Chinese
<pb n='169'/><anchor id='Pg169'/>
had pushed back into desolate lands and who faced an
ignominious extinction.
</p>

<p>
This consciousness of themselves as a race-national
unity was not of itself enough. The Chinese had lost the
favored position that they had held since before the
beginning of recorded history, and were no longer in a
position to view the frailties of outside nations with the
charity to which their once impregnable position had entitled
them. It was no longer a mere question of pushing
through a recognition that China, hitherto regarded by the
Chinese as the ecumene of civilization, was a nation, and
not even an equal to the other nations. This idea had to
be developed into a force.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen wrote, of the significance of philosophy in
action: <q>What is a principle? A principle is an idea, a
belief, a force. As a rule, when men search for the truth
of a thesis, they first reflect upon it, then their reflections
grow into a belief, and that belief becomes a force. Hence
in order to be firmly established, a principle must pass
through the different stages of idea, belief, and force.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 63.</note>
No more definite statement of the ideological consequences
of thought could be found. Sun Yat-sen appreciated
this, and realized that, in the carrying out of his
ideology, the first necessity was the adoption of the ideology
itself. All other steps must be secondary. The
grouping of the important steps in the fulfillment of the
program of nationalism may have differed from time to
time,<note place='foot'>T'ang, cited, pp. 168 and following, gives the various documents of
the First National Congress of the Kuomintang, which place the application
of nationalism first in their programs. <q>The Manifesto On Going
to Peking,</q> issued by Sun November 10, 1924, refers to various points
to be achieved; the first is, <q>National freedom from external restriction
will enable China to develop her national economy and to increase her
productivity.</q> (Hsü translation, p. 148.) This might imply that the
execution of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> was to be coincidental with or anterior to the
fulfillment of nationalism; it probably does not.</note> but the actual work of Sun Yat-sen was based
<pb n='170'/><anchor id='Pg170'/>
upon the method indicated: the establishment of at least
the preliminary notions of the ideology as a prerequisite to
effective social action. (In this connection, and in anticipation
of further discussion, it might be pointed out
that the advantage of the Moscow-Canton entente was not
one gained from the superior appeal of the Communist
ideology, but from the superior agitation techniques which
the Nationalists learned from the Communists, and which
enabled them to bring into play the full latent social force
in Sun Yat-sen's ideas.) But if mere national-consciousness
were insufficient of itself, what else was needed?
</p>

<p>
Loyalty was necessary. Being aware of themselves as
Chinese would not help them, unless they united and
were loyal to that union. <q>To say that what the ancients
understood by loyalty was loyalty toward the emperor, and
that, since we no longer have an emperor, we (need no
longer) speak of loyalty, and to believe that we can act
as we please&mdash;that is a grave error.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 187.</note> Sun Yat-sen thus
points out one of the most tragically perplexing of the
problems of the new China.
</p>

<p>
He was urging return to the ancient morality. The ancient
code of loyalty was one built up to the emperor.
Although the emperor did not have much power, in comparison
with some despots who have changed history, he
was nevertheless the man at the apex of society. The
Confucian society was one built in general upon the grand
design of an enormous family; a design which was, nevertheless,
flexible enough to permit the deposition of a
wicked or mad emperor&mdash;something which the Japanese
order of things could not in theory, although it did in fact,
tolerate. Filial piety was piety toward one's own family
head; loyalty was piety toward the family head of all
civilized society.
</p>

<p>
Many writers have pointed out the discord and unhappiness
<pb n='171'/><anchor id='Pg171'/>
which the abolition of the Empire brought to many
Chinese. Their code of honor was outraged; the embodiment
of their social stability was gone.<note place='foot'>Discussions of this are to be found in Sir Reginald Johnston's
<hi rend='italic'>Twilight in the Forbidden City</hi>, cited.</note> The critics who
made the comment could not, of course, deny the general
trend away of political organization throughout the world
from monarchy. They did question the competence of the
Chinese to make the readjustment at the present stage of
their history, or believed that the Chinese could not preserve
their traditional civilization under a governmental
system which was alien to the form if not to the spirit of
the Chinese tradition. Although their criticisms may be
influenced too heavily by an antiquarian appreciation of
the excellencies of the Chinese Imperial system, or a desire
to preserve China as a sort of vast museum with all
its quaintnesses of yesteryear, there is some point to what
they say, since the transition to national-state allegiance
was not an easy one. There were two factors involved in
it, besides the tremendousness of the educational task of
convincing almost half a billion people that they were no
longer ruled by a properly deputized agent of the universe,
but were quite free to manage their world as they collectively
saw fit. These factors were, first, the necessity of
preventing any possible resurrection of the Dragon
Throne, and second, the inculcation of allegiance to an
intangible state.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen pointed out the enormous waste of blood
and wealth involved in the change from one dynasty to
another, when the highest post in the whole world was
suddenly left open for the strongest man to seize. Republicanism
would consequently tend to prevent civil wars
in the future;<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 244.</note> the cumbersome, murderous old method
of expressing the popular will, as the Confucian ideology
provided, was to be done away with, and peaceful changes
<pb n='172'/><anchor id='Pg172'/>
of political personnel developed. He asserted that the
T'ai P'ing rebels, of whose memory he was fond, had
failed in their fierce attempt to establish a fantastic pseudo-Christian,
proletarian, collectivistic dynasty in the sixth
and seventh decade of the nineteenth century because of
the dispute that arose within their ranks as to leadership.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 245-247.</note>
He also pointed out that many of the militarists under
the Republic knew well that the Dragon Throne was
empty, but did not know that it was gone.
</p>

<p>
The story of the eradication of monarchy from Chinese
society is an interesting one, relevant to the question of
the old and the new loyalty. Sun Yat-sen's full force was
thrown at first against the Manchus. He taught the other
two principles of democracy and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, but in his
earlier years he attracted most attention by his anti-Manchu
activities. Now, in allowing the principle of
nationalism to do the work of the principle of democracy,
Sun Yat-sen was using the anti-dynastic revolutionary
potentialities of the situation to push along an anti-monarchical
movement. The Chinese constitutional arrangement
was such, under the Manchus, that a foreign monarch,
who was a sovereign in his own right, quite apart from
China, sat on the Chinese throne. The Manchu Emperor
occupied the Dragon Throne. Many were willing to rebel
against a Manchu; they might have hesitated had an indigenous
prince occupied that position.
</p>

<p>
On the occasion of the establishment of the first Republic,
in 1912, the Manchu Emperor was allowed to
continue residence in Peking. Retaining his dynastic title
and the use of the Forbidden City, he was to receive a
stipend from the Chinese Republic and to be entitled to
all the privileges normally accorded a foreign emperor by
international law. There is a remote possibility, although
the truth of this surmise cannot be substantiated, that he
<pb n='173'/><anchor id='Pg173'/>
was left there as a sort of scarecrow, to prevent anyone
from seizing the throne. Constitutional difficulties would
have arisen if a pensioned Manchu Emperor and a native
caesarian Emperor were to attempt to occupy the same
throne.
</p>

<p>
This peculiar arrangement does not seem to have helped
matters much. There was not enough pro-Manchu sentiment
to support any restoration movement on a large scale,
such as a reactionary insurrection, and the personal unpopularity
of the one man, Yüan Shih-k'ai, who, as dictator
of the first Republic (1912-1916), sought the throne,
was enough to keep any active monarchical movement
from succeeding. The one attempt of the Manchu partizans,
in 1917, failed utterly.
</p>

<p>
That is not to say that the Dragon Throne was not
missed. A general relaxation of political ethics was observable.
The old tradition could not easily be reconciled
to a juristic notion from outside. Sun Yat-sen sought
most eagerly to impress upon the Chinese the necessity
for state allegiance in place of monarchical devotion:
<q>At present everybody says that morality was overthrown
with the advent of the republic. The main reason is right
here. Reasonably speaking we must practice loyalty even
under a republican regime, not loyalty to a sovereign,
but loyalty toward the nation, loyalty toward the people,
loyalty toward our four hundred million men. Of course,
loyalty toward four hundred million men is something
much more exalted than loyalty toward one single man.
Hence we must preserve the excellent virtue of loyalty.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 187. Numerals have been written out by
the present author.</note>
A curious emphasis on the physical object of loyalty is
present here. The Chinese, having no background of
Western juristic hypostatizations, were unable to be faithful
to a legal fiction; expressing state allegiance, Sun
<pb n='174'/><anchor id='Pg174'/>
Yat-sen had to put it in its most tangible form, that of a
concord of human beings.
</p>

<p>
Nevertheless, under the republic, the old virtue of
personal loyalty should not interfere with state allegiance.
Sun Yat-sen was willing and anxious that the Chinese
should consider their loyalty as being directed to the
nation; he did not wish that the officials of the nation, as
men, should get it. In that case the very purpose of democracy
would be defeated, and a monarchy or an oligarchy
set up with the formulae of a democracy. Sun Yat-sen was
as radically republican as any early American. <q>In regard
to the government of the nation, fundamentally, it is the
people who have the power, but the administration of
the government must be entrusted to experts who have the
capacity. We need not regard those experts as stately and
honorable presidents and ministers, but merely as chauffeurs
of automobiles, as sentinels who guard the gate, as
cooks who prepare the food, as doctors who attend to
sicknesses, as carpenters who build houses, as tailors who
make clothes.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 365. Italics are omitted.</note> State allegiance had to be directed between
the Scylla of a monarchical restoration and the
Charybdis of nominally republican personal government.
The old form had to be discarded, and the old habits
turned in a new direction, but not in the easiest direction
that they might take.
</p>

<p>
The problem of the supplanting of the Dragon Throne
by a state was not an easy one. In the preparation of the
Chinese people for the initiation of an active program of
nationalism, the first elements of the nationalist ideology
had to be inculcated. This involved race-consciousness.
But the idea of race-consciousness and national-consciousness
could not be exerted as a force unless the conscious
union of the Chinese race-nation was accompanied by the
erection of a powerful democratic state, and unless this
<pb n='175'/><anchor id='Pg175'/>
state fell heir to the loyalty which had once been shown
the Throne, or even a higher loyalty. This loyalty had to
be based on the two suppositions that the Empire was
gone forever, and that personal loyalty, even under the
forms of a republic, should not be allowed to take its
place. Only with a genuine state-allegiance could the
Chinese advance to their national salvation.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Economic Nationalism.</head>

<p>
The ideological establishment of a race-national outlook
would have far-reaching consequences that might
well continue working themselves out for centuries. The
immediate exercise of this sense of unity was to be developed
through a loyalty to state allegiance, which would
also of itself be significant. These two new patterns&mdash;the
one ideological, and the other institutional&mdash;running
through the Chinese society and social mind were vitally
necessary. But after the institutional habit of state-allegiance
had been developed, what was the new democratic
state, the instrument of the awakened race-nation, to do
in the way of practical policies to give effect to the new
consciousness and strength of Chinese nationalism?
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen, whose principles tended to develop themselves
in terms of threes,<note place='foot'>This is not due to any mystical veneration of numbers, or religious
influence. In spreading doctrines which would have to be followed by
the unlettered as well as by the scholars, Sun Yat-sen found it necessary
to develop the general outline of his principles in such a way as to give
them a considerable mnemonic appeal. Thus, the three principles&mdash;and
the three French (liberty, equality, fraternity) and American (of, by, for
the people) principles&mdash;and the triple foreign aggression, the four popular
powers, the five governmental rights. The use of the number three permitted
Sun Yat-sen to weave together the various strands of his teaching,
and to attain a considerable degree of cross-reference. It cannot be shown
to have induced any actual distortion of his theories.</note> cited three perils constituting a
threat to the Chinese society. The first was the peril to
the Chinese race, which was faced with the possibility
<pb n='176'/><anchor id='Pg176'/>
of decline in an expanding Western World and might
even become vestigial or extinct. This peril was to be
fought with race-nationalism. The second was the peril to
the Chinese polity, the danger that China might become
politically appurtenant to some foreign power of group of
powers. This was to be fought with democratic race-nationalism.
And the last, and most insidious, was the
peril to the Chinese economy, the looting of China by the
unfair economic measures of the great powers, to be met
by a nationalist economic program. Sun Yat-sen was
most apprehensive of the combined strength of these three
pressures: <q>... I fear that our people are in a very
difficult position; and I fear that we may perish in the
near future. We are threatened by the three forces I
have mentioned: namely, the increase of foreign population,
the political force, and the economic force of the
foreigners.</q><note place='foot'>Hsü translation, cited, p. 213. See also d'Elia translation, p. 134.</note>
</p>

<p>
Of the three forms of the foreign oppression of China,
the economic, because it did not show itself so readily,
and was already working full force, was the most dangerous.
It was from this oppression that China had sunk to
the degraded position of a sub-colony. <q>This economic
oppression, this immense tribute is a thing which we did
not dream of; it is something which cannot be easily detected,
and hence we do not feel the awful shame of it.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 114.</note>
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen, as stated above, was not hostile to the
development of that portion of foreign capital which he
regarded as fairly employed in China, and spent a great
part of his life in seeking to introduce capital from outside.
He did, however, make a distinction between the
just operation of economic forces, and the unjust combination
of the economic with the politically oppressive.
Foreign capital in China was not oppressive because it
<pb n='177'/><anchor id='Pg177'/>
was capital; it was oppressive because it held a privileged
position, and because it was reinforced by political and
military sanctions. There is no implication in Sun Yat-sen's
works that the operations of finance, when not unjustly
interfered with by political action, could, even when
adverse to China, be regarded as wrong of themselves.
</p>

<p>
In what ways, then, did foreign capital so invest its
position with unjust non-economic advantages that it constituted
a burden and an oppression? There were, according
to Sun Yat-sen, six headings under which the various
types of economic incursion could be classified, with the
consequence that a total of one billion two hundred million
Chinese dollars were unjustly exacted from the
Chinese economy every year by the foreigners.
</p>

<p>
First, the control of the Customs services having, by
treaty, been surrendered by China, and a standard <foreign lang='la' rend='italic'>ad
valorem</foreign> tariff having also been set by treaty, the Chinese
had to leave their markets open to whatever foreign commerce
might choose to come. They were not in a position
to foster their new modern industries by erecting a protective
tariff, as had the United States in the days of its
great industrial development.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 101.</note> China's adverse balance
in trade constituted a heavy loss to the already inadequate
capital of the impoverished nation. Furthermore, the
amount of the possible revenue which could be collected
under an autonomous tariff system was lost. Again,
foreign goods were not required, by treaty stipulation, to
pay the internal transit taxes which Chinese goods had to
pay. As a result, the customs situation really amounted to
the development of a protective system for foreign goods
in China, to the direct financial loss of the Chinese, and
to the detriment of their industrial development. He
estimated that half a billion dollars, Chinese, was lost
yearly, through this politically established economic
<pb n='178'/><anchor id='Pg178'/>
oppression.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 113. The whole present discussion of
economic oppression is drawn from the latter part of the second lecture.
Except in the case of direct quotation, no further reference will be given
to this section, which occurs at pp. 97-115 of the d'Elia translation.</note> Obviously, one of the first steps of Chinese economic
nationalism had to be tariff autonomy.
</p>

<p>
Second, the foreign banks occupied an unfair position
in China. They had won a virtual monopoly of banking,
with the consequence that the Chinese banks had to appear
as marginal competitors, weak and unsound because the
people were <q>poisoned by economic oppression.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 106.</note> The
foreign banks issued paper money, which gave them cost-free
capital; they discounted Chinese paper too heavily;
and they paid either no or very little interest on deposits.
In some cases they actually charged interest on deposits.
A second step of economic nationalism had to be the
elimination of the privileged position of the foreign banks,
which were not subject to Chinese jurisdiction, and were
thus able to compete unfairly with the native banks.
</p>

<p>
Third, economic oppression manifested itself in transportation,
chiefly by water. The economic impotence of
the Chinese made them use foreign bottoms almost altogether;
the possible revenue which could be saved or perhaps
actually gained from the use of native shipping was
lost.
</p>

<p>
Fourth, the Western territorial concessions constituted
an economic disadvantage to the Chinese. Wrested from
the old Manchu government, they gave the foreigners a
strangle-hold on the Chinese economy. Besides, they
represented a direct loss to the Chinese by means of the
following items: taxes paid to the foreign authorities in
the conceded ports, which was paid by the Chinese and
lost to China; land rents paid by Chinese to foreign individuals,
who adopted this means of supplementing the
tribute levied from the Chinese in the form of taxes;
<pb n='179'/><anchor id='Pg179'/>
finally, the unearned increment paid out by Chinese to
foreign land speculators, which amounted to an actual loss
to China. Under a nationalist economic program, not
only would the favorable position of the foreign banks be
reduced to one comparable with that of the Chinese banks,
but the concessions would be abolished. Taxes would
go to the Chinese state, the land rent system would be
corrected, and unearned increment would be confiscated
under a somewhat novel tax scheme proposed by Sun
Yat-sen.
</p>

<p>
Fifth, the Chinese lost by reason of various foreign
monopolies or special concessions. Such enterprises as the
Kailan Mining Administration and the South Manchuria
Railway were wholly foreign, and were, by privileges
politically obtained, in a position to prevent Chinese competition.
This too had to be corrected under a system of
economic nationalism. The new state, initiated by the
Kuomintang and carried on by the people, had to be able
to assure the Chinese an equality of economic privilege in
their own country.
</p>

<p>
Sixth, the foreigners introduced <q>speculation and various
other sorts of swindle</q> into China.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 113.</note> They had exchanges
and lotteries by which the Chinese lost tens of
millions of dollars yearly.
</p>

<p>
Under these six headings Sun Yat-sen estimated the
Chinese tribute to Western imperialism to be not less than
one billion two hundred millions a year, silver. There
were, of course, other forms of exaction which the Westerners
practised on the Chinese, such as the requirement of
war indemnities for the various wars which they had
fought with China. Furthermore, the possible wealth
which China might have gained from continued relations
with her lost vassal states was diverted to the Western
powers and Japan. Sun Yat-sen also referred to the
<pb n='180'/><anchor id='Pg180'/>
possible losses of Chinese overseas, which they suffered
because China was not powerful enough to watch their
rights and to assure them equality of opportunity.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen did not expect that forces other than those
which political nationalism exerted upon the economic
situation could save the Chinese. <q>If we do not find
remedies to that big leakage of $1,200,000,000.00 per
year, that sum will increase every year; there is no reason
why it should naturally decrease of its own accord.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 113.</note>
The danger was great, and the Chinese had to use their
nationalism to offset the imperialist economic oppression
which was not only impoverishing the nation from year to
year, but which was actually preventing the development
of a new, strong, modern national economy.
</p>

<p>
What is the relation of the sub-principle of economic
nationalism to the principle of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>?<note place='foot'>In referring to a sub-principle, the author is following Sun Yat-sen's
arrangement of his ideas, even though the exact term, <q>sub-principle,</q>
is not to be found in Sun's works. Each of the three principles can be
considered with respect to national unity, national autonomy, and national
survival. The correlation of the three principles, each with itself and then
the two others, logically leads to the appearance of nine sub-principles.
The writer has not followed any artificial compulsion of numbers, merely
for the sake of producing a pretty outline, but has followed Sun Yat-sen
in seeking to make clear the specific relations of each of the three principles
to the three cardinal points which they embody.</note> Economic
nationalism was the preliminary remedy. The program of
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> was positive. It was the means of creating a
wealthy state, a modern, just economic society. But the
old oppressions of imperialism, lingering on, had to be
cleared away before China could really initiate such a
program. Not only was it the duty of the Chinese national
and nationalist state to fight the political methods of
Western imperialism; the Chinese people could help by
using that old Asiatic weapon&mdash;the boycott.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen was pleased and impressed with the consequences
of Gandhi's policy of non-coöperation. He
<pb n='181'/><anchor id='Pg181'/>
pointed out that even India, which was a subject country,
could practise non-coöperation to the extreme discomfort
of the British. The creation of race-nationalism, and of
allegiance to a strong Chinese state, might take time. Non-coöperation
did not. It was a tool at hand. <q>The reason
why India gained results from the non-coöperation policy
was that it could be practised by all the citizens.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 179-180.</note> The
Chinese could begin their economic nationalist program
immediately.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen pointed out that the basis for the weakness
of China, and its exploitation by the foreigners, was the
inadequacy of the Chinese ideology. <q>The reason why
we suffer from foreign oppression is our ignorance; we
<q>are born in a stupor and die in a dream</q>.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 180.</note> Conscious
of the peril of the foreign economic oppression, the Chinese
had to exert economic nationalism to clear the way
for the positive initiation of a program of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>.
In practising economic nationalism, there were two ways
that the Chinese could make the force of their national
union and national spirit felt: first, through the actual
advancement of the programs of the whole of nationalism
and the progress of the political and economic condition
of the country; second, through non-coöperation, <q>... a
negative boycott which weakens the action of imperialism,
protects national standing, and preserves from destruction.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 180.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Political Nationalism for National Autonomy.</head>

<p>
After the first steps of resistance to economic oppression,
the Chinese nationalists would have to launch a
counter-attack on the political oppression practised upon
China by the Western powers. In his discussion of this,
<pb n='182'/><anchor id='Pg182'/>
Sun Yat-sen described, though briefly, the past, the contemporary,
and the future of that oppression, and referred
to its methods. His theory also contained three answers
to this oppression which need to be examined in a consideration
of his theoretical program of Chinese nationalism:
first, the question of China's nationalist program of
political anti-imperialism; second, the nature of the ultimate
development of nationalism and a national state;
and third, the theory of the class war of the nations. In
view of the fact that this last is a theory in itself, and one
quite significant in the distinction between the doctrines
of Sun Yat-sen and those of Marxism-Leninism, it will be
considered separately. The first two questions of the
program of nationalism are, then: what is to be the negative
action for the advancement of China's national political
strength, in opposing the political power of the West?
and what is to be the positive, internal program of Chinese
nationalism?
</p>

<p>
As has been stated Sun Yat-sen used the anti-dynastic
sentiment current in the last years of the Manchus as an
instrument by means of which he could foster an anti-monarchical
movement. The great significance of his
nationalism as a nationalism of Chinese <foreign rend='italic'>vis-à-vis</foreign> their
Oriental-barbarian rulers quite overshadowed its importance
as a teaching designed to protect China against its
Western-barbarian exploiters. The triumph of the Republicans
was so startling that, for a time, Sun Yat-sen
seems to have believed that nationalism could develop of
itself, that the Chinese, free from their Manchu overlords,
would develop a strong race-national consciousness
without the necessity of any political or party fostering of
such an element in their ideology. Afire with all the
idealism of the false dawn of the first Republic, Sun Yat-sen
dropped the principle of nationalism from his program,
and converted his fierce conspiratorial league into
<pb n='183'/><anchor id='Pg183'/>
a parliamentary party designed to enter into amicable
competition with the other parties of the new era.<note place='foot'>Tsui, cited, pp. 113-114.</note> This
pleasant possibility did not develop. The work of nationalism
was by no means done. The concept of state-allegiance
had not entered into the Chinese ideology as
yet, and the usurper-President Yüan Shih-k'ai was able to
gather his henchmen about him and plan for a powerful
modern Empire of which he should be forced by apparently
popular acclamation to assume control.
</p>

<p>
The further necessity for nationalism appeared in several
ways. First, the Chinese had not become nationalistic
enough in their attitude toward the powers. Sun Yat-sen,
with his reluctance to enter into violent disagreement with
the old ideology, was most unwilling that chauvinism
should be allowed in China.<note place='foot'>Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi>, cited, pp. 21 and following, Book I.</note> He hoped that the Western
powers, seeing a fair bargain, would be willing to invest
in China sufficient capital to advance Chinese industrial
conditions. Instead, he saw Japanese capital pouring into
Peking for illegitimate purposes, and accepted by a prostituted
government of politicians. With the continuation
of the unfavorable financial policy of the powers, and the
continuing remoteness of any really helpful loans, he
began to think that the Chinese had to rely on their own
strength for their salvation.<note place='foot'>Among the persons whom he entrusted with the task of seeking
foreign capital for the just and honorable national development of China
through international means were George Bronson Rea and Paul Linebarger.
Mr. Rea was given a power of attorney by Sun to secure loans
for railway purposes to an unlimited amount. Mr. Rea never used the
document, but kept it among his papers. (Statement of Mr. Rea to the
author in Washington, spring of 1934, at the time that the former was
<q>Special Counsellor to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Manchoukuo,</q>
despite his former Chinese connections.) Judge Linebarger was also
unsuccessful. Sun Yat-sen was more interested in having Judge Linebarger
stop any assistance offered by the Consortium to the Northern <q>Republic
of China</q> than in having him procure any actual funds.</note> Second, he realized that the
<pb n='184'/><anchor id='Pg184'/>
foreigners in China were not generally interested in a
strong, modern Chinese state if that state were to be
developed by Chinese and not by themselves. Sun had
understood from the beginning that the great aim of nationalism
was to readjust the old world-society to nationhood
in the modern world; he had not, perhaps, realized
that the appearance of this nationhood was going to be
opposed by foreigners.<note place='foot'>It is obvious that a strong China would be a horrid nightmare to
Japan. Not only would the Chinese thwart the use of their man-power
and natural resources, as stepping stones to Asiatic or world hegemony;
they might even equal the Japanese in audacity, and think of restoring
the Japanese to the position of Chinese vassals which they had enjoyed in
the time of Yoshemitsu, the third Ashikaga Shogun.</note> When he came to power in 1912,
he thought that the immediate end of nationalism&mdash;liberation
of China from Manchu overlordship&mdash;had been
achieved. He was preoccupied with the domestic problems
of democracy and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>. When, however, the foreign
powers refused to let his government at Canton exercise
even the limited authority permitted the Chinese by the
treaties over their own customs service, and did not let
Sun take the surplus funds allowed the Chinese (after
payment of interest due on the money they had lent various
Chinese governments), his appreciation of the active
propagation of nationalism was heightened. He realized
that the Chinese had to fight their own battles, and that,
while they might find individual friends among the Westerners,
they could scarcely hope for a policy of the great
powers which would actually foster the growth of the
new national China.<note place='foot'>Tsui, cited, pp. 115-116.</note> Simultaneously, he found his advocacy
of a nationalist program receiving unexpected
support from the Soviet Union. His early contacts with
the Russians, who were the only foreigners actually willing
to intervene in his behalf with shipments of arms and
money, made him interested in the doctrines lying behind
their actions, so inconsistent with those of the other
<pb n='185'/><anchor id='Pg185'/>
Western powers. In the Communist support of his nationalism
as a stage in the struggle against imperialism,
he found his third justification of a return, with full
emphasis, to the program of nationalism.
</p>

<p>
Hence, at the time that he delivered his sixteen lectures,
which represent the final and most authoritative stage of
his principles, and the one with which the present work is
most concerned, he had returned to an advocacy of nationalism
after a temporary hope that enough work had been
done along that line. In expelling the alien Manchu
rulers of China, he had hoped that the old Chinese nationalism
might revive, as soon as it was free of the police
restrictions had placed on race-national propaganda by
the Empire. He had found that this suspension of a
nationalist campaign was premature because nationalism
had not firmly entrenched itself in the Chinese social
mind. In the first place, state allegiance was weak;
usurpers, dictators and military commandants strode about
the Chinese countryside with personal armies at their heels.
Secondly, the foreign powers, out of respect to whom,
perhaps, a vigorous patriotic campaign had not been carried
out, did not show themselves anxious to assist China&mdash;at
least, not as anxious as Sun Yat-sen expected them
to be. Third, the inspiration offered by a power which,
although temporarily submerged, had recently been counted
among the great powers of the world, and which had
rejected the aggressive policy which the rest of the Western
nations, to a greater or less degree, pursued in the Far
East, was sufficient to convince Sun Yat-sen of the justice
of the doctrines of that power. Soviet Russia did not stop
with words; it offered to associate with China as an equal,
and the Soviet representative in Peking was the first diplomat
to be given the title of ambassador to China.
</p>

<p>
The sharpening of the nationalist policy into a program
of anti-imperialism seems to have been the direct result of
<pb n='186'/><anchor id='Pg186'/>
the Communist teachings, one of the conspicuous contributions
of the Marxians to the programmatic part of the
theories of Sun Yat-sen. As earlier stated, their ideology
influenced his almost not all. Their programs, on the
other hand, were such an inspiration to the Chinese nationalists
that the latter had no hesitation in accepting
them. Hu Han-min, one of the moderate Kuomintang
leaders, who would certainly not go out of his way to give
the Communists credit which they did not deserve, stated
unequivocally that the Chinese did not have the slogan,
<q>Down with Imperialism!</q> in the 1911 revolution, and
gave much credit to the Bolsheviks for their anti-imperialist
lesson to the Chinese.<note place='foot'>Hu Han-min, cited in Tsui, work cited, p. 118, n. 63.</note>
</p>

<p>
In describing the political aggression of the Western
states upon the Chinese society, Sun Yat-sen began by
contrasting the nature of the inter-state vassalage which
the peripheral Far Eastern states had once owed to the
Chinese core-society. He stated that the Chinese did not
practise aggression on their neighbors, and that the submission
of the neighboring realms was a submission based
on respect and not on compulsion. <q>If at that time all
small states of Malaysia wanted to pay tribute and adopt
Chinese customs, it was because they admired Chinese
civilization and spontaneously wished to submit themselves;
it was not because China oppressed them through
military force.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 152. For a full discussion of this curious
relationship between China and her vassal states, see Djang Chu (Chang
Tso), <hi rend='italic'>The Chinese Suzerainty</hi>, Johns Hopkins University doctoral dissertation,
1935. The submission to China was, among other things, a means
by which the rulers of the peripheral states could get themselves recognized
by an authority higher than themselves, thus legitimizing their
position.</note> Even the position of the Philippines,
which Sun Yat-sen thought a very profitable and pleasant
one under American rule, was not satisfactory to the Filipinos
of modern times, who, unlike the citizens of the
<pb n='187'/><anchor id='Pg187'/>
vassal states of old China, were dissatisfied with their
subordinate positions.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 153. Sun Yat-sen seems to have had a
high opinion of the American administration of the Philippines, saying:
The United States <q>... even allows the Filipinos to send delegations to
Congress in Washington. Not only does the United States require no
annual tribute in money from them, but, on the contrary, she gives the
Filipinos considerable subsidies to build and maintain their roads and to
promote education. It seems as though so humanitarian a treatment would
be regarded as the utmost benevolence. Still, until the present day, the
Filipinos do not boast of being <q>Americanized</q>; they are daily clamoring
for independence</q> (d'Elia translation, p. 153). This statement is interesting
in two connections. In the first place, although Sun Yat-sen had
once thought of sending men, money, or munitions to help the Filipino
nationalists in their struggles against the Americans, he seems to have
conceived a warm admiration for the American administration in those
islands. Secondly, the reader may consider that Sun Yat-sen, at the time
that he made this comment, was in the course of attacking imperialism.
If Sun Yat-sen could offer so enthusiastic an apology for the Americans
in the Philippines, it shows that he must have let the abstract principle
ride, and judged only on the basis of his own observation. To the orthodox
Communist the American rule of the Philippines is peculiarly wicked
because of the American denial of imperialist practises.</note>
</p>

<p>
He pointed out that this benevolent Chinese position
was destroyed as the West appeared and annexed these
various states, with the exception of Siam. He then emphasized
that this may have been done in the past with a view
to the division of China between the various great powers.<note place='foot'>Some of the older books on China give interesting maps of that
country divided up into spheres of influence between the various powers.
It was quite fashionable among journalists to sketch the various Chinese
possessions of the great powers; the powers never got around to the partition.
The American declaration of the <q>Open Door</q> may have had
something to do with this, and the British enunciation of the same doctrine
probably carried weight. For a time, however, the Europeans seemed
quite convinced of the almost immediate break-up of China into three
or four big colonies. Lord Charles Beresford, a prominent English peer,
wrote a work which was extremely popular; its title was <hi rend='italic'>The Break-Up
of China</hi> (London, 1899).</note>
</p>

<p>
This partitioning had been retarded, but the danger was
still present. The Chinese revolution of 1911 may have
shown the powers that there was some nationalism still
left in China.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 93.</note>
</p>

<pb n='188'/><anchor id='Pg188'/>

<p>
The military danger was tremendous. <q>Political power
can exterminate a nation in a morning's time. China who
is now suffering through the political oppression of the
powers is in danger of perishing at any moment. She is
not safe from one day to the other.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 165.</note> Japan could conquer
China in ten days. The United States could do it in
one month. England would take two months at the most,
as would France. The reason why the powers did not
settle the Chinese question by taking the country was
because of their mutual distrust; it was not due to any
fear of China. No one country would start forth on such
an adventure, lest it become involved with the others and
start a new world war.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 165-170.</note>
</p>

<p>
If this were the case, the danger from diplomacy would
be greater even than that of war. A nation could be
extinguished by the stroke of a pen. The Chinese had no
reason to pride themselves on their possible military power,
their diplomacy, or their present independence. Their military
power was practically nil. Their diplomacy amounted
to nothing. It was not the Chinese but the aggressors
themselves that had brought about the long-enduring stalemate
with respect to the Chinese question. The Washington
Conference was an attempt on the part of the foreigners
to apportion their rights and interests in China
without fighting. This made possible the reduction of
armaments.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 170.</note> The present position of China was not one
in which the Chinese could take pride. It was humiliating.
China, because it was not the colony of one great power,
was the sub-colony of all. The Chinese were not even on
a par with the colonial subjects of other countries.
</p>

<p>
The shameful and dangerous position thus outlined by
Sun could be remedied only by the development of
<pb n='189'/><anchor id='Pg189'/>
nationalism and the carrying-on of the struggle against
imperialism.
</p>

<p>
Anti-imperialism was the fruit of his contact with the
Bolsheviks. His nationalism had approached their programs
of national liberation, but the precise verbal formulation
had not been adopted until he came in contact with
the Marxian dialecticians of the Third International. His
anti-imperialism differed from theirs in several important
respects. He was opposed to political intervention for
economic purposes; this was imperialism, and unjust. The
economic consequences of political intervention were no
better than the intervention itself. Nevertheless, at no
time did he offer an unqualified rejection of capitalism.
He sought loans for China, and distinguished between
capital which came to China in such a manner as to profit
the Chinese as well as its owners, and that which came
solely to profit the capitalists advancing it, to the economic
disadvantage of the Chinese. In his ideology, Sun Yat-sen
never appears to have accepted the Marxian thesis of the
inevitable fall of capitalism, nor does he seem to have
thought that imperialism was a necessary and final stage
in the history of capitalism.
</p>

<p>
In short, his program of anti-imperialism and the foreign
policy of Chinese political nationalism, seem to be
quite comparable to the policy held by the Soviets, apart
from those attitudes and activities which their peculiar
ideology imposed. In practical matters, in affairs and
actions which he could observe with his own eyes, Sun
Yat-sen was in accord with the anti-imperialism of Soviet
Russia and of his Communist advisers. In the deeper implications
of anti-imperialism and in the pattern of the
Marxian-Leninist ideology underlying it in the U.S.S.R.,
he showed little interest. Ideologically he remained Chinese;
programmatically he was willing to learn from the
Russians.
</p>

<pb n='190'/><anchor id='Pg190'/>

<p>
The internal program of his nationalism was one which
seems to have been influenced by the outlook developed
by himself. His vigorous denunciation of Utopian cosmopolitanism
prevents his being considered an internationalist.
He had, on the occasion of the institution of the
first Republic, been in favor of the freedom of nations
even when that freedom might be exercised at the expense
of the Chinese. The Republic might conceivably have
taken the attitude that it had fallen heir to the overlordship
enjoyed by the Manchu Empire, and consequently
refused representation to the Mongols, Manchus, Tibetans,
and Mohammedans. It was, however, called the Republic
of Chung Hua (instead of the Republic of Han), and a
five-striped flag, representing its five constituent <q>races,</q>
was adopted. Sun Yat-sen later gave a graphic description
of the world-wide appeal of Woodrow Wilson's principle
of national self-determination. He did not think that the
principle, once enunciated, could be recalled; and stated
that the defeat of the minor and colonial nations at the
Versailles Conference, which drafted a very unjust treaty,
was an instance of the deceitfulness of the great powers.
</p>

<p>
His nationalism did not go so far as to permit his
endorsing the entrance of the People's Republic of Outer
Mongolia into the Soviet Union. This doctrine of nationalism
as a correlative of democratic national autonomy was
his second principle, that of democracy; his first principle,
that of race-nationalism, had other implications for the
destiny of Mongolia. His positive program of nationalism
was dedicated, in its <q>political</q> exercise, to the throwing-off
of the imperialist bondage and the exercise of the
self-rule of the Chinese people.
</p>

<p>
It is only if one realizes that these three sub-principles
of nationalism were re-emphases of the three principles
that their position in the theory of the nationalist program
becomes clear. Nationalism was to clear the way for
<pb n='191'/><anchor id='Pg191'/>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> by resisting the Western economic oppression
of the Chinese, and thus allowing the Chinese to enrich
themselves. Nationalism was to strike down the political
oppression of imperialism by eradicating the political holds
of the West upon China, and thus allowing the Chinese
people to rule itself. So long as China was at the mercy
of Western power, any self-government that the Chinese
might attempt would have to be essayed at the sufferance
of the aggressors. Finally, nationalism was to reinforce
itself by the application of race-nationalism to race-kinship;
China was not only to be self-ruling&mdash;it was to help
the other nations of Asia restore their autonomy and shield
them with its tutelary benevolence.
</p>

<p>
When one considers that to Sun Yat-sen democracy and
autonomy are inextricably associated, the full significance
of his stressing nationalism as a means to democracy appears.
The Chinese people could not rule themselves if
they were to be intimidated by the Western powers and
Japan. They could not rule themselves completely if
large portions of them were under alien jurisdiction in the
treaty ports. These forms of political oppression were
wounds in the body of Chinese society. Chinese nationalism,
associated with democracy, required that the whole
Chinese people be associated in one race-nation and that
this race-nation rule itself through the mechanism of a
democratic state.
</p>

<p>
Here the code of values imposed by Sun Yat-sen's
thinking in terms of the old ideology becomes apparent.
The development of nationalism in China, while it threatened
no one outside and sought only for the justification
of China's interests at home, was an accentuation of the
existence of the race-nation. The race-nation, freeing itself
(political nationalism) and ruling itself (democracy),
was to become more conscious of itself. Sun implicitly
denied the immediate necessity for a general world-authority;
<pb n='192'/><anchor id='Pg192'/>
perhaps he did so because he realized that in
the present world, any supreme authority would be predominantly
Western. The Chinese race-nation, once
politically free, had a definite duty to perform on behalf
of its peripheral states and on behalf of the suppressed
states of the whole world. The first demand, however,
was for the freedom of China; others could not be helped
by China until China herself was free.
</p>

<p>
The political application of nationalism envisaged (1)
the elimination of existing foreign political control (imperialism)
in China; (2) the strengthening of the country
to such a degree that it would no longer be a hypo-colony
or sub-colony, and would not have to live under the
constant threat of invasion or partition; and (3) the resulting
free exercise of self-rule by the Chinese people,
through a nationalist democracy, so arranged that self-rule
of China did not conflict with the equal right of self-rule
of other peoples but, on the contrary, helped them.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Class War of the Nations.</head>

<p>
Now come to a consideration of the second part of
the sub-principle of political nationalism. This is the theory
held by Sun concerning the class war of the nations. It
serves to illustrate three points in Sun Yat-sen's thought:
first, that Sun never permitted a Western theory to disturb
the fundamentals of Chinese ideology as he wished to
re-orient it; second, that Sun frequently took Western
political theories which had been developed in connection
with the relations of individuals and applied them to the
relations of nations; and third, that Sun was so much
impressed with the cordiality and friendship proffered him
by the Communists that he sought to coöperate with them
so far as his Chinese ideology permitted him.<note place='foot'>The Communists envision three types of conflict to be produced by
the contradictions of imperialism: intra-national class war, international
class war, and inter-imperialist war. The first is the struggle of the proletariat
of the whole world against the various national bourgeois governments;
the second, the struggle of the oppressed peoples, under revolutionary
bourgeois or proletarian leadership, against the oppressions of
Western imperialism; and the last, the conflict of the various imperialist
powers with one another. Sun Yat-sen's theory agreed definitely with the
second point, the international class war; he seems to have admitted the
probability of class war within the nations of the West, and of inter-imperialist
war, but he did not draw the three types of conflict together
and because of them predicate an Armageddon and a millenium. His
flexible, pragmatic thought never ran to extremes; although he agreed,
more or less distinctly, with the Bolshevik premises of the three conflicts
of the imperialist epoch, he did not follow them to their conclusion.</note>
</p>

<pb n='193'/><anchor id='Pg193'/>

<p>
One notes that the question of distributive justice is
not as pressing in China as it is in the modern West. One
also observes that the old Chinese ideology was an ideology
of the totalitarian society, which rejected any higher
allegiance of states or of classes. And one sees that Sun
Yat-sen, in proposing a democracy, suggested an ideology
which would continue the old Chinese thesis of eventual
popular sovereignty as reconciled with administration by
an intellectually disciplined elite. Each of these three
points prevented Sun from endorsing the intra-national
class struggle.
</p>

<p>
He regarded the class struggle, not&mdash;as do the Marxians&mdash;as
a feature of every kind of economically unequal
social organization, but as a pathological development to
be found in disordered societies. He considered the
Marxian teachings in this respect to be as different from
really adequate social doctrines as pathology is from physiology
in medical science. The mobility of the old Chinese
society, combined with the drags imposed by family, village,
and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign>, had resulted in a social order which by and
large was remarkably just. By presenting the principle of
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> as a cardinal point in an ideology to be made
up of old Chinese morality, old Chinese knowledge, and
Western science, he hoped to avoid the evils of capitalism
in the course of ethically sound enrichment, development
and arrangement of China's economy.
</p>

<pb n='194'/><anchor id='Pg194'/>

<p>
At the same time Sun was faced with the spectre of
imperialism, and had to recognize that this unjust but
effective alliance of economic exploitation and political
subjection was an irreconcilable enemy to Chinese national
freedom. He saw in Russia an ally, and did not see it
figuratively. Years of disappointment had taught him that
altruism is rare in the international financial relations of
the modern world. After seeking everywhere else, he
found the Russians, as it were, on his door-step offering
him help. This convinced him as no theory could have.
He regarded Russia as a new kind of power, and ascribed
the general hatred for the Soviet to their stand against
capitalism and imperialism: <q>Then all the countries of
the world grew afraid of Russia. This fear of Russia,
which the different countries entertain at present, is more
terrible than the fear they formerly held, because this
policy of peace not only overthrew the Russian imperialism,
but (purposed) to overthrow also imperialism in
the (whole world).</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 75.</note> This fight against imperialism
was a good work in the mind of Sun Yat-sen.
</p>

<p>
In considering the principles of Sun more than a decade
after they were pronounced, one cannot permit one's own
knowledge of the events of the last eleven years to make
one demand of Sun Yat-sen a similar background. That
would amount to requiring that he be a prophet. At the
time when he spoke of the excellence of Russia he had no
reason to question the good faith of the Communists who
were helping him. It is conceivable that even the Bolsheviks
who were aiding and advising the Nationalists did
not realize how soon the parting of the ways would
come, how much the two ideologies differed from one
another, how much each of the two parties endangered
the other's position. At the time Sun spoke, the Communists
were his allies in the struggle against imperialism;
<pb n='195'/><anchor id='Pg195'/>
they had agreed from the beginning that China was a
country not suited to communism; and Sun Yat-sen, relying
on them not to use him in some wider policy of theirs,
had no cause to mistrust or fear them. What has happened
since is history. Sun Yat-sen can scarcely be required
to have predicted it. His comments on imperialism,
therefore, must be accepted at face value in a consideration
of the nationalist program in his theories.
</p>

<p>
The method by means of which Sun reconciled his
denial of the superiority of class to nation is an interesting
one, profoundly significant as a clue to the understanding
of his thought. He estimates the population of the world
at 1500 million. Now, of this total 400 million are members
of the white race, who constitute the most powerful
and prosperous people in the modern world. <q>This white
race regards (its 400,000,000 representatives) as the unit
which must swallow up the other, colored races. Thus the
Red tribes of America have already been exterminated....
The Yellow Asiatic race is now oppressed by the Whites,
and it is possible that it will be exterminated before
long.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, pp. 148-149.</note> Thus, as Sun viewed it, imperialism before the
war was racial as well as economic. The White Peril was
a reality. This emphasis on the doctrine of race shows the
emphasis that Sun put upon race once he had narrowed
down the old world-society to the Chinese race-nation.
The most vigorous <foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>Rassenpolitiker</foreign>, such as Homer Lea or
Lothrop Stoddard,<note place='foot'>Such works as Lea's <hi rend='italic'>The Valor of Ignorance</hi>, New York, 1909, and
Stoddard's <hi rend='italic'>The Rising Tide of Color Against White World Supremacy</hi>,
New York, 1920, make precisely the same sort of statements, although,
of course, they regard the <q>Saxon</q> or <q>Teutonic</q> race as the logical
master-race of the world. Since Lea was associated for some time with
Sun Yat-sen, accompanying him from Europe to Nanking in 1911, and
undoubtedly had plenty of time to talk with him, it may be that some of
the particular terms used by Sun in this discussion are those which he may
have developed in his probable conversations with Lea. Nothing more
definite than this can be stated.</note> would approve heartily of such a
<pb n='196'/><anchor id='Pg196'/>
system of calculation in politics. Sun Yat-sen differed with
them, as he differed with the Marxians, and with the race-theorists
in general, by not following any one Western
absolute to the bitter end, whether it was the class war
or the race struggle.
</p>

<p>
Russia fitted into this picture of race struggle. One
hundred and fifty million Russians left the camp of the
400 million white oppressors, and came over to the just
side of the 1100 million members of oppressed nations.
Consequently the figures came out somewhat more favorably
for the oppressed, in spite of the fact that the imperialist
powers were still economically and militarily
supreme. Sun Yat-sen quoted an apocryphal remark of
Lenin's: <q>There are in the world two categories of people;
one is composed of 1,250,000,000 men and the other of
250,000,000 men. These 1,250,000,000 men are oppressed
by the 250,000,000 men. The oppressors act against
nature, and in defiance of her. We who oppose <emph>might</emph>
are following her.</q><note place='foot'>Quoted by Sun in d'Elia translation, cited, p. 138. The remark does
not sound like Lenin. A Communist would not invoke nature, nor would
he count the whole membership of an imperialist nation as imperialist.
The world, to him, is misguided by a tiny handful of capitalists and
traditional ideologues and their hangers-on, not by the masses of any
nation.</note> Sun regarded the Russian Revolution
as a shift in the race-struggle, in which Russia had
come over to the side of the oppressed nations. (He did,
of course, refer to Germany as an oppressed nation at
another time, but did not include, so far as we can tell,
the German population in the thesis under consideration.)
</p>

<p>
On this basis China was to join Russia in the class
struggle of the nations. The struggle was to be between
the oppressed and the oppressors among the nations, and
not between the races, as it might have been had not
Russia come over to the cause of international equality.<note place='foot'>Note, however, the reference in d'Elia translation, cited, p. 76, or
the Price translation, p. 18. Sun Yat-sen speaks of <emph>international wars,
within</emph> races, on the lines of social <emph>classes</emph>. He may have meant international
wars within the races and across race lines on the basis of the
oppressed nations of the world fighting the oppressing nations. He may,
however, have meant intra-national class wars. Since he recognized the
presence of the class conflict in the developed capitalistic states of the
West, this would not necessarily imply his expectation of an intra-national
class war in China.</note>
<pb n='197'/><anchor id='Pg197'/>
After the class struggle of the nations had been done
with, the time for the consideration of cosmopolitanism
would have arrived.
</p>

<p>
In taking class lines in a scheme of nations, Sun was
reconciling the requirements of the old ideology and the
international struggle against imperialism. It is characteristic
of his deep adherence to what he believed to be the
scheme of realities in political affairs that he did not violate
his own well-knit ideology in adopting the Marxian ideology
for the anti-imperialist struggle, but sought to preserve
the marvellous unity of his own society&mdash;a society
which he believed to have been the most nearly perfect
of its time. The race-interpretation of the international
class struggle is at one and the same time an assertion
of the natural and indestructible unity of Chinese society,
and the recognition of the fact that China and Russia,
together with the smaller nations, had a common cause
against the great advances of modern imperialism.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Racial Nationalism and Pan-Asia.</head>

<p>
The dual orientation of Sun Yat-sen's anti-imperialist
programs has already been made partly evident in the
examination of this belief in a class war of the nations.
A much more nearly complete exposition of this doctrine,
although with the emphasis on its racial rather than on
its economic aspects, is to be found in the third sub-principle
of the nationalist program: the race-national
aspect of the national revolution. Each of the three principles
was to contribute to this implementation of nationalism.
<pb n='198'/><anchor id='Pg198'/>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min shêng</foreign> was to provide the foundation for
economic nationalism. Democracy was to follow and reinforce
political nationalism, which would clear away the
political imperialism and let the Chinese, inculcated with
state-allegiance, really rule themselves.
</p>

<p>
At the end of his life, even after he had delivered the
sixteen lectures on the three principles, Sun Yat-sen issued
another call for the fulfillment in action of his principle
of nationalism. This, too, praised Russia and stressed the
significance of the defection of Russia from the band of
the white oppressing powers; but it is important as showing
the wider implications of Sun Yat-sen's race-national
doctrines. During the greater part of his life, Sun spoke of
the Chinese race-nation alone. His racial theory led him
into no wider implications, such as the political reality of
race kinship. In this last pronouncement, he recognized
the wide sweep of consequences to which his premises of
race-reality had led him. This call was issued in his celebrated
Pan-Asiatic Speech of November 28, 1924, given
in Kobe, Japan.<note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, pp. 331-337, gives the whole text of the
speech. Sharman, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, p. 304, refers to it.</note>
</p>

<p>
The content of the speech is narrower than the configuration
of auxiliary doctrines which may be discussed in
connection with it. These are: the race orientation of the
Chinese race-nation; the possibility of Pan-Asia; and the
necessary function of the future Chinese society as the
protector and teacher of Asia, and of the whole world.
These points in his theoretical program were still far in
the future when he spoke of them, and consequently did
not receive much attention. In the light of the developments
of the last several years, and the continued references
to Sun's Pan-Asia which Japanese officials and propagandists
have been making, this part of his program requires
new attention.
</p>

<pb n='199'/><anchor id='Pg199'/>

<p>
The speech itself is a re-statement of the race-class war
of the nations. He points out that <q>It is contrary to justice
and humanity that a minority of four hundred million
should oppress a majority of nine hundred million....</q><note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, p. 335. <q>Es ist gegen Gerechtigkeit und
Menschlichkeit, dass eine Minderheit von vierhundert Millionen eine
Mehrheit von neunhundert Millionen unterdrückt....</q></note>
<q>The Europeans hold us Asiatics down through the power
of their material accomplishments.</q><note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, p. 333. <q>Die Europäer halten uns Asiaten
durch die Macht ihrer materiellen Errungenschaften zu Boden.</q></note> He then goes on to
stress the necessity of emulating the material development
of the West not in order to copy the West in politics
and imperialism as well, but solely for the purpose of
national defense. He praises Japan, Turkey, and the Soviet
Union as leaders of the oppressed class of nations and
predicts that the time will come when China will resume
the position she once had of a great and benevolent power.
He distinguishes, however, between the position of China
in the past and Great Britain and the United States in the
present. <q>If we look back two thousand five hundred
years, we see that China was the most powerful people of
the world. It then occupied the position which Great
Britain and the United States do today. But while Great
Britain and the United States today are only two of a
series of world powers, China was then the only world
power.</q><note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, cited, p. 333. <q>Wenn wir zweitausendfünf-hundert
Jahre zurückdenken, so war China damals das mächtigste Volk
der Welt. Es nahm damals eine Stellung ein wie heute Grossbritannien
und Amerika. Doch während Grossbritannien und die Vereinigten
Staaten heute zur zwei unter einer Reihe von Weltmächten sind, war
China damals die einzige grosse Macht.</q></note> Sun also refers to the significant position of
Turkey and Japan as the two bulwarks of Asia, and
emphasizes the strangely just position of Russia.
</p>

<p>
In his earlier days Sun Yat-sen had been preoccupied
with Chinese problems, but not so much so as to prevent
<pb n='200'/><anchor id='Pg200'/>
his taking a friendly interest in the nationalist revolutions
of the Koreans against the Japanese, and the Filipinos
against the Americans. This interest seems to have been
a personally political one, rather than a preliminary to a
definition of policy. He said to the Filipinos: <q>Let us
know one another and we shall love each other more.</q><note place='foot'>Ponce, work cited, p. xiv: <q><emph>Conozcámonos y nos amaremos más</emph>&mdash;decía
el gran Sun Yat-sen á sus amigos orientales.</q> This work is, by the
way, the most extensive for its account of Sun's associations with Koreans,
Filipinos, and Japanese. It has been completely overlooked by the various
biographers of and commentators on Sun, with the exception of Judge
Linebarger, to whom Sun Yat-sen presented a copy of the work.</note>
The transformation of the ideology in China did not necessarily
lead to the development of outside affiliations. The
Confucian world-society, becoming the Chinese race-nation,
was to be independent.
</p>

<p>
In the development of his emphasis upon race kinship
on the achievement of race-nationalism, Sun Yat-sen initiated
a program which may not be without great meaning
in the furthering of the nationalist program. He showed
that the Chinese race-nation, having racial affinities with
the other Asiatic nations, was bound to them nationally in
policy in two ways: racially, and&mdash;as noted&mdash;anti-imperialistically.
This theory would permit the Chinese to be
drawn into a Pan-Asiatic movement as well as into an
anti-imperialist struggle. This theory may now be used
as a justification for either alternative in the event of
China's having to choose aides in Russo-Japanese conflict.
China is bound to Russia by the theory of the class war of
the nations, but could declare that Russia had merely devised
a new form for imperialism. China is bound to
Japan by the common heritage of Asiatic blood and civilization,
but could declare that Japan had gone over to the
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>pa tao</foreign> side of Western imperialism, and prostituted herself
to the status of another Westernized-imperialized
aggressive power. Whatever the interpretations of this
<pb n='201'/><anchor id='Pg201'/>
doctrine may be, it will afford the Chinese a basis for their
foreign policy based on the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>.
</p>

<p>
When Sun Yat-sen spoke, Russia and China had not
fought over the Chinese Eastern Railway and the Chinese
Communist problem, nor had Japan and China entered
into the Manchurian conflict. He was therefore in no
position to see that his expressions of approval for Pan-Asianism
and for pro-Soviet foreign policy might conflict.
In one breath he praised Japan as the leader and
inspirer of modern Asia, and lauded Russia as the pioneer
in a new, just policy on the part of the Western powers.
He saw little hope that the example of the Soviet Union
would be followed by any other Western power, although
he did state that there was <q> ... in England and America
a small number of people, who defend these our ideals in
harmony with a general world movement. As far as the
other barbarian nations are concerned, there might be
among them people who are inspired by the same convictions.</q><note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, p. 337: <q>In England und Amerika gibt es
immerhin eine kleine Zahl von Menschen, die diese unsere Ideale im
Einklang mit einer allgemeinen Weltbewegung verteidigen. Was die
anderen Barbarennationen anbelangt, so dürfte es auch in ihren Reihen
Menschen geben, die von der gleichen Überzeugung beseelt sind.</q></note>
The possibility of finding allies in the West
did not appear to be a great one to Sun Yat-sen.
</p>

<p>
Sun did something in this speech which he had rarely
hitherto done. He generalized about the whole character
of the East, and included in that everything which the
Westerners regarded as Eastern, from Turkey to Japan.
We have seen that the Chinese world of Eastern Asia
had little in common with the middle or near East. In this
speech Sun accepted the Western idea of a related Orient
and speaks of Asiatic ideals of kindliness and justice. This
is most strange. <q>If we Asiatics struggle for the creation
of a pan-Asiatic united front, we must consider ... on
what fundamental constitution we wish to erect this united
<pb n='202'/><anchor id='Pg202'/>
front. We must lay at the foundations whatever has been
the special peculiarity of our Eastern culture; we must
place our emphasis on moral value, on kindliness and
justice.</q><note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, p. 335: <q>Wenn wir Asiaten nach der
Herstellung einer panasiatischen Einheitsfront streben, müssen wir selbst
in unserer Zeit daran denken, auf welcher grundlegenden Auffassung wir
diese Einheitsfront errichten wollen. Wir sollen dasjenige zugrunde legen,
was die besondere Eigentümlichkeit unserer östlichen Kultur gewesen ist,
wir sollten unseren Nachdruck legen auf die moralischen Werte, auf Güte
und Gerechtigkeit. Sie sollen das Fundament der Einheit ganz Asiens
werden.</q></note> This Pan-Asian doctrine had been the topic of
frequent discussion by Japanese and Russians. The former
naturally saw it as a great resurgency of Asia under the
glorious leadership of the Japanese Throne. The Russians
found pan-Asianism to be a convenient instrument in the
national and colonial struggle against imperialism for
communism.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen joined neither of these particular pan-Asiatic
outlooks. The foreign policy of the Chinese race-nation
was to fight oppressors, and to join the rest of Asia
in a struggle against white imperialist domination. But&mdash;here
is the distinction&mdash;how was China to do these things?
Sun Yat-sen never urged the Chinese to accept the leadership
of the Western or Japanese states, however friendly
they might be. China was to follow a policy of friendship
and coöperation with those powers which were friendly
to her and to the cause of justice throughout the world.
Sun praised the old system of Eastern Asia, by which the
peripheral states stood in vassalage to China, a vassalage
which he regarded as mutually voluntary and not imperialistic
in the unpleasant sense of the word.
</p>

<p>
In the end, he believed Chinese society should resume
the duty which it had held for so many centuries in relation
to its barbarian neighbors. China should be rightly
governed and should set a constant instance of political
propriety. Sun even advocated ultimate intervention by
<pb n='203'/><anchor id='Pg203'/>
the Chinese, a policy of helping the weak and lifting up
the fallen. He concluded his sixth lecture on nationalism
by saying: <q>If we want to <q>govern the country rightly
and pacify the world,</q> we must, first of all, restore our
nationalism together with our national standing, and unify
the world on the basis of the morality and peach which are
proper (to us), in order to achieve an ideal government.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 207. Italics omitted.</note>
</p>

<p>
We may conclude that his racial sub-principle in a program
of nationalism involved: 1) orientation of Chinese
foreign policy on the basis of blood kinship as well as on
the basis of class war of the nations; 2) advocacy of a
pan-Asiatic movement; and 3) use of China's resurgence
of national power to restore the benevolent hegemony
which the Chinese had exercised over Eastern Asia, and
possibly to extend it over the whole world.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The General Program of Nationalism.</head>

<p>
It may be worthwhile to attempt a view of the nationalist
program of Sun Yat-sen as a whole. The variety of
materials covered, and the intricate system of cross-reference
employed by Sun, make it difficult to summarize
this part of his doctrines on a simple temporal basis. The
plans for the advancement of the Chinese race-nation do
not succeed each other in an orderly pattern of future
years, one stage following another. They mirror, rather,
the deep conflict of forces in the mind of Sun, and bring
to the surface of his teachings some of the almost irreconcilable
attitudes and projects which he had to put
together. In the ideological part of his doctrines we do
not find such contrasts; his ideology, a readjustment of
the ideology of old China, before the impact of the new
world, to conditions developing after that impact, is fairly
homogeneous and consistent. It does not possess the rigid
and iron-bound consistency required to meet the logic of
<pb n='204'/><anchor id='Pg204'/>
the West; but, in a country not given to the following of
absolutes, it was as stable as it needed to be. His programs
do not display the same high level of consistency.
They were derived from his ideology, but, in being derived
from it, they had to conform with the realities of
the revolutionary situation in words addressed to men in
that situation. As Wittfogel has said, the contradictions
of the actual situation in China were reflected in the
words of Sun Yat-sen; Marxians, however, would suppose
that these contradictions ran through the whole of
the ideology and plans. It may be found that in the old
security transmitted by Sun from the Confucian ideology
to his own, there is little contradiction; in his programs
we shall find much more.
</p>

<p>
This does not mean, of course, that Sun Yat-sen
planned things which were inherently incompatible with
one another. What he did do was to advocate courses of
action which might possibly have all been carried out at
the same time, but which might much more probably present
themselves as alternatives. His ardor in the cause of
revolution, and his profound sincerity, frequently led him
to over-assess the genuineness of the cordial protestations
of others; he found it possible to praise Japan, Turkey,
and the Soviet Union in the same speech, and to predict
the harmonious combination, not only of the various
Asiatic nationalisms with each other, but of all the nations
of Asia with Western international communism.
The advantage, therefore, of the present treatment, which
seeks to dissever the ideology of Sun Yat-sen from his
plans, may rest in large part upon the fact that the ideology,
based in the almost timeless scheme of things in
China, depended little upon the political situations of the
moment, while his plans, inextricably associated with the
main currents of the contemporary political situation, may
have been invalidated as plans by the great political
changes that occurred after his death. That is not to say,
<pb n='205'/><anchor id='Pg205'/>
however, that his plans are no longer of importance. The
Chinese nationalists may still refer to them for suggestions
as to their general course of action, should they
wish to remain orthodox to the teachings of Sun. The
plans also show how the ideology may be developed with
reference to prevailing conditions.
</p>

<p>
Clearly, some changes in the plans will have to be
made; some of the changes which have been made are
undoubtedly justified. Now that war between the Soviet
Union and Japan has ceased to be improbable, it is difficult
to think of the coördination of a pan-Asiatic crusade
with a world struggle against imperialism. Chinese nationalists,
no longer on good terms with the Japanese&mdash;and
on worse terms with the Communists&mdash;must depend
upon themselves and upon their own nation much more
than Sun expected. At the time of his death in 1925 the
Japanese hostility to the Kuomintang, which became so
strikingly evident at Tsinanfu in 1928-9, and the fundamental
incompatibility of the Kuomintang and the Communist
Party of China, had not manifested themselves.
On the other hand, he could not have foreseen that the
imperialist nations, by no means cordial to the Chinese
Nationalists, would become as friendly to the Chinese
nationalism as they have. The United States, for instance,
while not acting positively against the political restrictions
of Western imperialism (including its own) in
China, has been friendly to the Nanking government,
and as far as a rigid policy of neutrality permitted it, took
the side of China against Japan in the Manchurian conflict
in and after 1931. Such developments cannot easily
be reconciled to the letter of the plans of Sun Yat-sen,
and, unless infallibility is expected of him, there is no
reason why they should.
</p>

<pb n='206'/><anchor id='Pg206'/>

<p>
His plans possess an interest far more than academic.
It is not the province of this work to judge the degree to
which the Nationalists carried out the doctrines of Sun,
nor to assess the relative positions of such leaders as
Chiang Chieh-shih and Wang Ching-wei with respect to
orthodoxy. The plans may be presented simply as a part
of the theory of Sun Yat-sen, and where there is possibility
of disagreement, of his theory in its final and most
authoritative stage: the sixteen lectures of 1924, and the
other significant writings of the last years of his life.
</p>

<p>
The first part of his plans for China&mdash;those dealing
with the applications of nationalism&mdash;may be more easily
digested in outline form:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
1. The Kuomintang was to be the instrument of the revolution.
Re-formed under the influence of the Communist advisers,
it had become a powerful weapon of agitation. It was, as
will be seen in the discussion of the plans for democracy,
to become a governing system as well. Its primary purpose
was to carry out the advancement of nationalism by
the elimination of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>tuchuns</foreign> and other anti-national
groups in China, and by an application of the three principles,
one by one, of the nationalist program.
</p>

<p>
2. The Kuomintang should foster the ideology of nationalism
and arouse the Chinese people to the precarious position of
their country. In order to make nationalism politically
effective, state allegiance had to supplant the old personal
allegiance to the Dragon Throne, or the personal allegiance
to the neo-feudal militarists.
</p>

<p>
3. Nationalism should be exerted economically, to develop the
country in accord with the ideology of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> and to
clear away imperialist economic oppression which interfered
with both nationalism and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>.
</p>

<p>
4. Nationalism had to be exerted politically, for two ends: Chinese
democracy, and Chinese autonomy, which Sun often
spoke of as one. This had to be done by active political
<pb n='207'/><anchor id='Pg207'/>
resistance to aggression and by the advancement of a China
state-ized and democratic.
</p>

<p>
5. Nationalism had also to be exercised politically, in another
manner: in the class war of the nations. China should
fight the racial and economic oppression of the ruling
white powers, in common with the other oppressed nations
and the one benevolent white nation (Soviet Russia).
</p>

<p>
6. Nationalism had to reinforce itself through its racial kinships.
China had to help her fellow Asiatic nations, in a
pan-Asia movement, and restore justice to Asia and to the
world.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
This recapitulation serves to show the curious developments
of Sun Yat-sen's nationalist program. Originally
based upon his ideology, then influenced by the race-orientation
of a good deal of his political thought, and
finally reconciled to the programmatic necessities of his
Communist allies, it is surprising not in its diversity but
in its homogeneity under the circumstances. This mixture
of elements, which appears much more distinctly in
Sun's own words than it does in a rephrasing, led some
Western students who dealt with Sun to believe that his
mind was a cauldron filled with a political witch-brew.
If it is remembered that the points discussed were programmatic
points, which changed with the various political
developments encountered by Sun and his followers,
and not the fundamental premises of his thought and
action (which remained surprisingly constant, as far as
one can judge, throughout his life), the inner consistency
of Sun Yat-sen will appear. These plans could not have
endured under any circumstances, since they were set in a
particular time. The ideology may.
</p>

<p>
In turning from the nationalist to the democratic plans
of Sun Yat-sen, we encounter a distinct change in the
type of material. Orderly and precise instead of chaotic
and near-contradictory, the democratic plans of Sun Yat-sen
<pb n='208'/><anchor id='Pg208'/>
present a detailed scheme of government based
squarely on his democratic ideology, and make no concessions
to the politics of the moment. Here his nationalism
finds its clearest expression. The respective autonomies
of the individual, the clan, the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> and the nation
are accounted for; the nature of the democratic nationalist
state becomes clear. Programmatically, it is the clearest,
and, perhaps, the soundest, part of Sun's work.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='209'/><anchor id='Pg209'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chapter VI. The Programs of Democracy.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Three Stages of Revolution.</head>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's doctrine of the three stages of revolution
attracted a considerable degree of attention. By the three
stages of the revolution he meant (1) the acquisition of
political power by the teachers of the new ideology (the
revolution), (2) the teaching of the new ideology (tutelage),
and (3) the practice of government by the people
in accord with the new ideology (constitutional democracy).
Enough of Sun Yat-sen's teaching concerning the
new ideology has been shown to make clear that this proposal
is merely a logical extension of his doctrine of the
three classes of men.
</p>

<p>
Western writers who have acquainted themselves with
the theory seem, in some instances, inclined to identify it
with the Marxist theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat,
into which the proletarian revolution is to be
divided into three stages&mdash;the conquest of political power
by the masses; the dictatorship of the proletariat; and the
inauguration (in the remote future) of the non-governmental
class-less society.<note place='foot'>The article by Tsui, cited, p. 177 and following, goes into a quite
detailed comparison of the Chinese Nationalist and the Marxian Communist
theories of the three stages of revolution. He draws attention to
the fact that, while the Communists do not speak of "three stages"
and prefer to emphasize the transitional stage of the dictatorship of the
proletariat, the two theories are similar almost to the point of being
identical.</note> It scarcely seems necessary to
go so far afield to discover the origin of the theory. As a
matter of record, Sun Yat-sen made his earliest recorded
announcement of this theory in 1905, when he was not at
all under the influence of Marxism, although he was acquainted
<pb n='210'/><anchor id='Pg210'/>
with it.<note place='foot'>Tsui, cited, p. 181.</note> Finally, the theory forms so necessary
a link between his theory of Kuomintang control of the
revolution, and his equally insistent demand for ultimate
democracy, that it may be regarded as a logically necessary
part of his complete plan. The coincidence between
his and the Marxian theories would consequently appear
as a tribute to his acumen; this was the view that the
Communists took when they discovered that Sun Yat-sen
was afraid of the weaknesses of immediate democracy in
a country not fit for it.
</p>

<p>
One might also observe that, once the premise of revolution
for a purpose is accepted, the three stages fit well
into the scheme of age-old traditional political thought
advocated by the Confucians. Confucius did not see the
value of revolution, although he condoned it in specific
instances. He did, however, believe in tutelage and looked
forward to an age when the ideology would have so impregnated
the minds of men that <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ta t'ung</foreign> (the Confucian
Utopia) would be reached, and, presumably, government
would become superfluous. That which Sun sought to
achieve by revolution&mdash;the placing of political power in
the hands of the ideological reformers (or, in the case of
the Marxist theory, the proletariat, actually the Communist
party, its trustee)&mdash;Confucius sought, not by advocating
a general conspiracy of scholars for an oligarchy
of the intellectuals, but the more peaceful method of
urging princes to take the advice of scholars in government,
so that the ideology could be established (by the
introduction of <q>correct names,</q> <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chêng ming</foreign>) and ideological
control introduced.
</p>

<p>
The three stages of revolution may resemble Communist
doctrine; they may have been influenced by Confucian
teaching; whatever their origin, they play an extremely
important part in the doctrines of Sun Yat-sen, and in the
<pb n='211'/><anchor id='Pg211'/>
politics springing from his principles. If the Kuomintang
is the instrument of the revolution, the three stages are its
process. The clearest exposition of this theory of the
three stages is found in <hi rend='italic'>The Fundamentals of National
Reconstruction</hi>, a manifesto which Sun Yat-sen issued in
1924:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
3. The next element of reconstruction is democracy. To enable
the people to be competent in their knowledge of politics,
the government should undertake to train and guide them so
that they may know how to exercise their rights of election, recall,
initiative, and referendum....
</p>

<p>
5. The order of reconstruction is divided into three periods,
viz.
</p>

<lg>
<l>(<hi rend='italic'>a</hi>) Period of Military Operations;</l>
<l>(<hi rend='italic'>b</hi>) Period of Political Tutelage;</l>
<l>(<hi rend='italic'>c</hi>) Period of Constitutional Government.</l>
</lg>

<p>
6. During the period of military operations the entire country
should be subject to military rule. To hasten the unification
of the country, the Government to be controlled by the Kuomintang
should employ military force to conquer all opposition in
the country and propagate the principles of the Party so that the
people may be enlightened.
</p>

<p>
7. The period of political tutelage in a province should begin
and military rule should cease as soon as order within the province
is completely restored....
</p>

</quote>

<p>
He then goes on to describe the method by which tutelage
shall be applied, and when it should end. It should
end, Sun declares, in each <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> (district; township) as the
people of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> become self-governing, through learning
and practice in the democratic techniques. As soon as
all the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> within a province are self-governing, the
provincial government shall be released to democratic
control.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
23. When more than one half of the provinces in the country
have reached the constitutional government stage, <hi rend='italic'>i. e.</hi> more
<pb n='212'/><anchor id='Pg212'/>
than one half of the provinces have local self-government full
established in all their districts, there shall be a National Congress
to decide on the adoption and promulgation of the Constitution....
</p>

<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Signed</hi>) <hi rend='smallcaps'>Sun Wen</hi>
</p>

<p>
12th day, 4th month, 13th year of the Republic
(April 12, 1924).<note place='foot'>Tyau, cited, p. 439 and following. It is also available in Hsü, <hi rend='italic'>Sun
Yat-sen</hi>, cited above, p. <ref target='Pg085'>85</ref> and following. The Tyau translation was preferred
since it was written by an official of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, and may be regarded as the work of a Government spokesman.
It is interesting, by way of contrast, to quote a passage from the Constitution
of the Chinese Soviet Republic, so-called: <q>The Chinese Soviet
Government is building up a state of the democratic dictatorship [sic!]
of the workers and peasants. All power shall be vested in the Soviets of
Workers, Peasants, and Red Army men.</q> <hi rend='italic'>Fundamental Laws of the
Chinese Soviet Republic</hi>, New York, 1934, p. 18. The absence of an
acknowledged period of tutelage, in view of the unfamiliarity of the
Chinese people with democratic forms, is significant. The constitutional
jurisprudence of the Chinese Communists is, however, primarily a matter
of academic interest, since the Soviets, where they have existed, have
existed in a state of perpetual emergency, shielded by the Red Terror and
other devices of revolutionary control. The contrast between a pronouncement
of Sun Yat-sen and a constitution is a fair one, since the writings
of Sun Yat-sen form the final authority in the Nationalist movement and
government; in a dispute as to the higher validity of a governmental
provision or a flat contrary statement of Sun Yat-sen, there can be little
question as to which would&mdash;or, in the eyes of the Nationalists, should&mdash;prevail.</note>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen was emphatic about the necessity of a
period of tutelage. The dismal farce of the first Republic
in 1912, when the inexperience and apathy of the people,
coupled with the venality of the militarists and politicians,
very nearly discredited Chinese democracy, convinced Sun
Yat-sen that effective self-government could be built up
only as the citizens became ready for it. A considerable
number of the disputes concerning the theory of self-government
to be employed by the policy-making groups of
the National (Kuomintang-controlled) Government have
centered on the point of criteria for self-government.
Even with the insertion of a transition stage, and with a
<pb n='213'/><anchor id='Pg213'/>
certain amount of tutelage, difficulties are being encountered
in the application of this theory of the introduction
of constitutional government as soon as the people in a
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> are prepared for it. Other considerations, military
or political, may make any venture beyond the secure confines
of a benevolent Party despotism dangerous; and the
efficacy of tutelage can always be questioned. The period
of tutelage was set for 1930-1935; it is possible, however,
that the three stages cannot be gone through as quickly
as possible, since the Japanese invasions and the world
economic depression exercised a thoroughly disturbing
influence throughout the country.
</p>

<p>
A final point may be made with regard to the three
stages of the revolution as Sun Yat-sen planned them.
Always impetuous and optimistic in revolutionary endeavor,
Sun Yat-sen expected that the military conquest
would be rapid, the period of tutelage continue a few
years, and constitutional democracy endure for ages, until
in the end <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ta t'ung</foreign> should reign upon earth. The transition
period was not, as in the theory of the Confucians and
the Marxians, an indefinite period beginning with the
present and leading on down to the age of the near-perfection
of humanity. It was to Sun Yat-sen, in his more
concrete plans, an interval between the anarchy and
tyranny of the warlord dictatorships and the coming of
Nationalist democracy. It was not a scheme of government
in itself.
</p>

<p>
To recapitulate: Sun Yat-sen believed that revolution
proceeded or should proceed by three stages&mdash;the (military)
revolution proper; the period of tutelage; and the
period of constitutional democracy. His theory resembles
the Communist, although it provides for a dictatorship of
<pb n='214'/><anchor id='Pg214'/>
the patriotic elite (Kuomintang) and not of any one class
such as the proletariat; it also resembles the Confucian
with respect to the concepts of tutelage and eventual harmony.
Military conquest was to yield swiftly to tutelage;
tutelage was to lead, <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> by <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>, into democracy.
With the establishment of democracy in more than one-half
of the provinces, constitutional government was to
be inaugurated and the expedient of Party dictatorship
dispensed with.
</p>

<p>
This theory, announced as early as 1905, Sun did not
insist upon when the first Republic was proclaimed in
1912, with the tragic results which the history of that unfortunate
experiment shows. In the experience derived
from that great enthusiasm, Sun appreciated the necessity
of knowledge before action. He was willing to defer the
enjoyment of democracy until the stability of the democratic
idea in the minds of the people was such that they
could be entrusted with the familiar devices of Western
self-government.
</p>

<p>
What kind of a democratic organization did Sun Yat-sen
propose to develop in China on the basis of his Nationalist
and democratic ideology? Having established
the fundamental ideas of national unity, and the national
self-control, and having allowed for the necessity of an
instrument of revolution&mdash;the Kuomintang&mdash;and a process
of revolution&mdash;the three stages, what mechanisms of
government did Sun advocate to permit the people of
China to govern themselves in accord with the Three
Principles?
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Adjustment of Democracy to China.</head>

<p>
It is apparent that, even with tutelage, the democratic
techniques of the West could impair the attainment of
democracy in China were they applied in an unmodified
form, and without concession to the ideological and institutional
<pb n='215'/><anchor id='Pg215'/>
backgrounds of the Chinese. The Westerner
need only contemplate the political structure of the
Roman Republic to realize how much this modern democracy
is the peculiar institution of his race, bred in his
bone and running, sacred and ancient, deep within his
mind. The particular methods of democracy, so peculiarly
European, which the modern&mdash;that is, Western or
Westernized&mdash;world employs, is no less alien to the imperial
anarchy of traditional China than is the Papacy.
Sun Yat-sen, beholding the accomplishments of the West
in practical matters, had few illusions about the excellence
of democratic shibboleths, such as parliamentarism
or liberty, and was profoundly concerned with effecting
the self-rule of the Chinese people without leading them
into the labyrinth of a strange and uncongenial political
system.
</p>

<p>
In advocating democracy he did not necessarily advocate
the adoption of strange devices from the West.
While believing, as we have seen, in the necessity of the
self-rule of the Chinese race-nation, he by no means desired
to take over the particular parliamentary forms
which the West had developed.<note place='foot'>It is interesting to note that the institution which most Western
writers would incline to regard as the very key-stone of democracy, parliament,
has a quite inferior place in the Sun Yat-sen system. In the
National Government of China, the Legislative Yuan is more like a department
than like a chamber. This question, however, will be discussed
under the heading of the Five Rights.</note> He criticised the weakness
of Western political and social science as contrasted
with the strength of Western technology: <q>It would be
a gross error to believe that just as we imitate the material
sciences of the foreigners, so we ought likewise to
copy their politics. The material civilization of the foreigners
changes from day to day; we attempt to imitate
it, and we find it difficult to keep step with it. But there
is a vast difference between the progress of foreign politics
<pb n='216'/><anchor id='Pg216'/>
and the progress of material civilization; the speed of
(the first) is very slow.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 341.</note> And he said later, in speaking
of the democracy of the first Republic: <q>China wanted to
be in line with foreign countries and to practice democracy;
accordingly she set up her representative government.
But China has not learned anything about the good
sides of representative governments in Europe and in
America, and as to the bad sides of these governments,
they have increased tenfold, a hundredfold in China, even
to the point of making swine, filthy and corrupt, out of
government representatives, a thing which has not been
witnessed in other countries since the days of antiquity.
This is truly a peculiar phenomenon of representative
government. Hence, China not only failed to learn well
anything from the democratic governments of other countries,
but she learned evil practices from them.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 342.</note> This
farce-democracy was as bad as no government at all. Sun
Yat-sen had to reject any suggestion that China imitate the
example of some of the South American nations in borrowing
the American Constitution and proclaiming a
<q>United States of China.</q> The problem was not to be
solved so easily.
</p>

<p>
In approaching Sun Yat-sen's solution the Western
student must again remember two quite important distinctions
between the democracy of Sun Yat-sen and the democracy
of the West. Sun Yat-sen's principle of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min ch'üan</foreign>
was the self-control of the whole people first, and a
government by the mass of individuals making up the
people secondarily. The Chinese social system was well
enough organized to permit the question of democracy to
be a question of the nation as a whole, rather than a
question of the reconciliation of particular interests within
the nation. Special interests already found their outlet in
<pb n='217'/><anchor id='Pg217'/>
the recognized social patterns&mdash;so reminiscent of the institutions
envisaged by the pluralists&mdash;of the ancient order.
In the second place, China was already a society which
was highly organized socially, although politically in
ruins; the democratic government that Sun Yat-sen planned
had infinitely less governing to do than did Western
governments. The new Nationalist government had to
fit into rather than supplant the old order. As a consequence
of these distinctions, one may expect to find much
less emphasis on the exact methods of popular control of
the government than one would in a similar Western plan;
and one must anticipate meeting the ancient devices and
offices which the usage of centuries had hallowed and
made true to the Chinese.
</p>

<p>
One may find that democracy in China is not so radical
a novelty as it might at first thought be esteemed. A
figure of speech, which somewhat anticipates the exposition,
may serve to prepare one for some of the seeming
omissions of Sun Yat-sen's plan for a democracy. The
suggestion is this: that the democracy of Sun Yat-sen is,
roughly, a modernization of the old Imperial system, with
the Emperor (as the head of the academic civil service)
removed, and the majority placed in his stead. Neither
in the old system nor in the new were the minorities the
object of profound concern, for, to the Chinese, the notion
of a minority (as against the greater mass of the tradition-following
people) is an odd one. The rule of the Son of
Heaven (so far as it was government at all) was to be
replaced by the rule of the whole people (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min</foreign>, which is
more similar to the German <foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>Volk</foreign> than the English
<emph>people</emph>). The first Sun Yat-sen called monarchy; the
second, democracy.
</p>

<p>
The old ideology was to yield to the new, but even
the new as a review of it has shown, was not broad enough
completely to supplant the old. The essential continuity
<pb n='218'/><anchor id='Pg218'/>
of Chinese civilization was not to be broken. Democracy
as a Western institution could be nothing more than a
sham, as the parliaments at Peking had showed; democracy
in China had to be not only democracy, but Chinese
as well.
</p>

<p>
It is not, therefore, extraordinarily strange to find the
ancient institutions of the Empire surviving by the side of
the most extreme methods of popular government. The
censorate and the referendum, the examination system and
the recall, all could work together in the democracy
planned by Sun Yat-sen. Even with the idea of popular
rule adopted in the formal Western manner, Sun Yat-sen
proposed to continue the idea of natural and ineradicable
class differences between men. The Chinese democracy
was not to be any mere imitation of the West; it was to be
the fundamentally new fusion of Chinese and Western
methods, and offered as the solution for the political readjustment
of the Chinese society in a world no longer safe
for it.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Four Powers.</head>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen divided all men into three categories:
the geniuses, the followers, and the unthinking. To reconcile
this theory of natural inequality with democracy, he
distinguished between <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ch'üan</foreign>, the right to rule as sovereign,
and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>nêng</foreign>, the right to administer as an official. He
furthermore considered the state similar to a machine.
How should the unthinking, who would possess <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ch'üan</foreign>,
the right to rule, be granted that right without attempting
to usurp <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>nêng</foreign>?
</p>

<p>
This was to be accomplished by two means. The Four
Powers were to be given to the people, in order to assure
their possession of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ch'üan</foreign>. The Five Rights were to assure
that the government might be protected in its right to
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>nêng</foreign>, in its right to have only the most competent officials.
Together the Four Powers and the Five Rights implement
<pb n='219'/><anchor id='Pg219'/>
a scheme of government so novel that Sun Yat-sen himself
believed it to be a definite contribution to political method.
The learned Jesuit translator of the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chin I</hi> does
not even term it democracy, but neo-democracy instead.<note place='foot'>A discussion of the four powers and the five rights is to be found in
Li Chao-wei, <hi rend='italic'>La Souveraineté Nationale d'après la Doctrine Politique de
Sun-Yet-Sin</hi>, Dijon, 1934. This work, a doctoral thesis submitted to the
University of Dijon, treats the Western theory of democracy and Sun's
theory comparatively. It is excellent in portraying the legal outline of the
Chinese governmental structure, and points out many significant analogies
between the two theories.</note>
</p>

<p>
The Four Powers represent an almost extreme limit of
popular control. Sun Yat-sen divided the four into two
groups: the first two are powers of the people over the
administrators&mdash;the power of election and the power of
recall; the second two are powers of the people over the
laws&mdash;the power of initiative and the power of referendum.
Having secured the government from undue interference,
Sun Yat-sen had no reluctance in giving these powers to
the people. He said: <q>As for our China, since she had
no old democratic system, she ought to be able to make
very good use of this most recent and excellent
invention.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 391.</note>
</p>

<p>
These four powers are perhaps the most Western element
in the whole theory of Sun. History does not record
the technique by which the Chinese chose Yao to be their
Emperor, and even where actions comparable to elections
were performed, it was not by use of the ballot-box or
the voting machine, or drilling on an appointed field.
The Chinese way of getting things done never tended that
much to formality. A man who wanted to be a village
head might be quietly chosen head by a cabal of the most
influential persons, or at a meeting of many of the villagers.
He might even decide to be head, and act as
head, in the hope that people would pay attention to him
and think that he was head. The Four Powers represent
<pb n='220'/><anchor id='Pg220'/>
a distinct innovation in Chinese politics for, apart from a
few ridiculous comic-opera performances under the first
Republic, and the spurious plebiscite on the attempted
usurpation of Yüan Shih-k'ai, the voting method has been
a technique unknown in China. It is distinctly Western.
</p>

<p>
Another distinction may be made with a certain degree
of reservation and hesitancy. It is this: the Chinese, without
the elaborate system of expedient fictions which the
West terms juristic law, were and are unable to conceive
of corporate action. A law passed by the Peking parliament
was not passed by the dictator in parliament, or the
people in parliament; it was simply passed by parliament,
and was parliament's responsibility. The only kind of law
that the people could pass would be one upon which they
themselves had voted.
</p>

<p>
Seen in this light, the Four Powers assume a further
significance greater than the Western political scientist
might attribute to them. In America there is little difference
between a law which the people of Oregon pass in
the legislature, and one which they pass in a referendum.
To the Chinese there is all the difference in the world.
The one is an act of the government, and not of the
people; the other, the act of the people, and not of the
government. The people may have powers over the
government, but never, by the wildest swing of imagination,
can they discover themselves personified in it. A
Chinese democracy is almost a dyarchy of majority and
officialdom, the one revising and checking the other.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen did not comment on the frequency with
which he expected these powers to be exercised, nor has
the political development of democratic China gone far
enough to afford any test of experience; it is consequently
impossible to state whether these powers were to be, or
shall be, exercised constantly as a matter of course, or
whether they shall be employed by the people only as
<pb n='221'/><anchor id='Pg221'/>
courses for emergency action, when the government
arouses their displeasure. The latter seems the more
probable, in view of the background of Chinese tradition,
and the strong propensities of the Chinese to avoid getting
involved in anything which does not concern them immediately
and personally. This probability is made the more
plausible by the self-corrective devices in the governmental
system, which may seem to imply that an extensive use of
the popular corrective power was not contemplated by Sun
Yat-sen.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen said:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Now we separate power from capacity and we say <hi rend='italic'>that the
people are the engineers and the government is the machine</hi>. On
the one hand, we want the machinery of the government to be
all-powerful, able to do anything, and on the other hand we
want the engineer, the people, to have great power so as to be
able to control that all-powerful machine.
</p>

<p>
But what must be the mutual rights of the people and of the
government in order that they might balance? We have just
explained that. On the people's side there should be the four
rights of <emph>election</emph>, <emph>recall</emph>, <emph>initiative</emph>, and <emph>referendum</emph>. On the
government's side there must be five powers.... If the four
governing powers of the people control the five administrative
powers of the government, then we shall have <emph>a perfect political-democratic
machine</emph>....<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 395.</note>
</p>

</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Five Rights.</head>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen implemented his theory of democracy by
assigning Four Powers to the people and Five Rights to
the government. This latter doctrine is one of the most
disputed points in his proposal. Some writers see in it
nothing more than a crass conjunction of the theory of
Montesquieu and the practices of the Chinese Imperial
system.<note place='foot'><p>The unfavorable view of the Five Powers is taken by Dr. Jermyn
Chi-hung Lynn in his excellent little book, <hi rend='italic'>Political Parties in China</hi>,
Peiping, 1930. Since Dr. Lynn speaks kindly and hopefully of the plans
of Wu Pei-fu, one of the war-lords hostile to Sun Yat-sen and the whole
Nationalist movement, his criticism of Sun Yat-sen need not be taken as
completely impartial. It represents a point that has been made time and
time again by persons antagonistic to the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>.
</p>
<p>
<q>The Wu Chuan Hsien Fa is also no discovery of Dr. Sun's. As is
known, the three power constitution, consisting of the legislative, judiciary
[sic!] and executive functions, was originally developed, more or less
unconsciously, by the English, whose constitution was critically examined
by Montesquieu, and its working elaborately described by him for the
benefit of his fellow-countrymen. And the unwritten constitution of Old
China contained the civil service examination and an independent Board
of Censors. Now the much-advertised Wu Chuan Hsien Fa or Five-Power
constitution only added the systems of state examination and public censure
to the traditional form of constitution first advocated by the French
jurist.</q> P. 66, work cited.</p></note> His followers are disposed to regard the doctrine
<pb n='222'/><anchor id='Pg222'/>
of the Five Rights as the product of intrepid imagination,
which succeeded in reconciling the traditional scheme of
Chinese things with the requirements of modern self-government.
</p>

<p>
Sun made the point that both Chinese and Western
governments had in the past had tripartite governments.
He illustrated this by a diagram:<note place='foot'>Hsü translation, cited, p. 104.</note>
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Constitution of China</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>The Examining Power (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Kao Shih ch'üan</foreign>)</l>
<l>The Imperial Power (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Chun ch'üan</foreign>)</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The Legislative Power</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The Executive Power</l>
<l rend='margin-left: 2'>The Judicial Power</l>
<l>The Power to Impeach (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Tan k'ê ch'üan</foreign>)</l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Foreign Constitutions</hi>
</p>

<lg>
<l>The Legislative Power combined with the Power to Impeach</l>
<l>The Executive Power combined with the Examining Power</l>
<l>The Judicial Power</l>
</lg>

</quote>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen believed that in separating the Five Rights
from one another he would make clear certain differentiations
<pb n='223'/><anchor id='Pg223'/>
of function which had led to numberless disputes in
the past, and would present to the world a model
government.
</p>

<p>
Thus far, the Five Rights seem the complement of the
Four Powers. The two sets of controls, of people over the
government, and of the government over the people,
assure China that a neo-democratic administration will
have no less continuity and power than did its Imperial
predecessor, and nevertheless be subject to the will of
the majority of the four hundred odd million sovereigns.
Contemplated in this manner, the Five Rights are an
amalgamation of the Western theory upon the Chinese,
and significant as a novelty in democratic administrative
theory rather than as institutions altering the fundamental
premises and methods of democracy.
</p>

<p>
If, however, a further step is taken, and the Five
Powers are associated with Sun Yat-sen's doctrine of the
three naturally unequal classes of men, they assume a
somewhat less superficial significance. If the rule of the
people is placed over the administration by the geniuses,
the geniuses must be assured a method of entering the
government service. The oligarchy of the intellectuals is
to be reconciled with the dictatorship of the majority.
The old Chinese system of a trained class of scholars,
entrance to which was open on a competitive system to
members of almost all classes of society, had to be preserved
in the new China, and at the same time disciplined
and purified of unworthy or unsuitable elements, while
simultaneously subject to the policy-making authority of
the majority.
</p>

<p>
The preservation of a leader class was to be assured by
an examination division in the new democratic government,
and its purification and discipline continued by a
supervisory or censoring division. The administrative setup
of the nationalist democracy would appear as follows,
<pb n='224'/><anchor id='Pg224'/>
when the present official translations of the Chinese names
for the divisions (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Yuan</foreign>) are adopted:
</p>

<list type='ordered'>
<item>The division of the executive (Executive Yuan).</item>
<item>The division of the legislative (Legislative Yuan).</item>
<item>The division of the judicial (Judicial Yuan).</item>
<item>The division of censorship, impeachment and accounting
(Control Yuan).</item>
<item>And the division of the examination system (Examination
Yuan).</item>
</list>

<p>
It is an illustration of the further difference between the
democracy of Sun Yat-sen and Western democracy, that
each of the divisions, even the legislative, was to have
a single head. The whole government was to be departmentally,
not camerally, organized.
</p>

<p>
The system of Five Powers emphasizes the implied
dyarchy of government and people in the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>
by assigning to the government itself functions which, in
the usual course of events, are supposed to be exercised
by the people themselves in Western democracies. The
people are supposed to eliminate unfit officials and decide
on the merits and trustworthiness of incumbents. By the
expedient of non-reëlection, the people are supposed to
remove officials, who are incapable or unsuitable for
public office. The two functions have been taken over by
the Examination and Control Yuans, respectively; the
Four Powers of the people are not, in all probability,
instruments for continual popular intrigue and meddling
in government, but almost revolutionary implements for
shifting the course or composition of the government.
</p>

<p>
The Five Rights are instruments for the self-government
of the official class (Examination and Control), and
for the government of the people by the official class
(Executive, Legislative, and Judicial). The Four Powers
are the instruments for the government of the official class
<pb n='225'/><anchor id='Pg225'/>
by the people. Out of the checks and balances of government
and people the integrity, efficacy, and stability of
Sun Yat-sen's democracy was to be assured.
</p>

<p>
The exercise of the Four Rights of the people could, in
the theory of Sun Yat-sen, be used to check the development
of an arrogant, inefficient or irresponsible bureaucracy,
in that the people would assist in the selection of
officials and would be able to remove incompetents at any
time. The civil service mechanism of the government
would, on the other hand, resist the too free play of
popular caprice. No incompetent person would be elected
to office, since the civil service would extend even to
elective offices. The voters could remove a bad official
but they could not replace him with an untrained person;
they would have to select their candidate from the roster
of scholar-officials eligible for the rank of the office in
question. The people were to supervise the operations of
the age-old Chinese civil service, as revivified by the
nationalists; they were to appoint and remove officers, to
repeal and enact laws; but in no case were they to tear
down the structure of the civil service and inaugurate a
spoils democracy such as that found in the United States.
This blending of extreme democracy and traditional administrative
hierarchy would result, said Sun Yat-sen, in
perfect government.
</p>

<p>
The democratic nationalist government was to supersede
the Empire. In between there was no central government,
since the various military leaders paid scant respect
to the unfortunate clique of diplomats and officials who
carried on the few functions left to the powerless Peking
government.<note place='foot'>For an intensively vivid description of this government, which Sun
Yat-sen's planned democracy was to relegate to limbo, see B. L. Putnam
Weale, <hi rend='italic'>The Vanished Empire</hi>, London, 1926. Putnam Weale was the
pseudonym of Bertram Lennox Simpson, an Englishman born and reared
in China, who understood and participated in Chinese life and policies as
have few since the days of Marco Polo; he was an advisor to the insurrectionary
Peking <q>Nationalist</q> Government of 1931 when he was shot
to death in his home at Tientsin. Few other Westerners have left such a
wealth of accurate and sympathetic material about modern China.</note> The new government was not, therefore,
<pb n='226'/><anchor id='Pg226'/>
so much a new political order to be set up in place of the
old as a political order to be built up out of military
chaos. The social system, although shaken and affected by
Western ideas, continued much as usual, and was to be
woven into the new socio-political patterns that Sun Yat-sen
projected.
</p>

<p>
The Nationalist government was to be the nation's
answer to the foreign aggression. The White Peril, which
had flooded Asia, could only be held back by the dykes of
a militant nationalist movement, expressing itself in a
formal state such as the Westerners themselves had developed,
and which fitted them to undertake the conquest
of the world. This government was to be the agent of the
whole Chinese people who, casting off the oppression of
the militarists and the imperialists, was to rise again with
its ancient power, formidable and ready to fight if necessary,
more ready to bring about world-coöperation and
peace if possible. It was to be a government made up of
a trained officialdom such as ancient China had possessed
for centuries, which had led to the integration of control
and culture (in the narrowest sense of the word), and
of a people ruling by checking that officialdom: an all-powerful
state-machine ruled by an all-powerful people.<note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 399.</note>
A state was to appear in the world of states and enclose
the Chinese people, by political power, more effectively
than could the Great Wall.
</p>

<p>
This aspect of democracy, the self-rule of the Chinese
society <foreign rend='italic'>vis-à-vis</foreign> the linked despotism of militarists, renegades
and imperialists, was, although the most important
facet of democracy, not the whole story. In order to
systematize the loose democracy of old China, in order to
<pb n='227'/><anchor id='Pg227'/>
lead all force to the top, where it could be exerted outwards,
the democratic plan had to plan links with the
traditional system. The government could not be democratic
if it were not tied to the people. The people could
not govern themselves, as apart from governing the officialdom
making up the National government, unless they
had mechanisms with which to do so. Although the family,
the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign> and the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> provided self-government, this self-government
had to be associated with the scheme of
nationalist and national self-government in order to
guarantee the latter's effectiveness. Beyond or beneath the
national democracy of China there was to be a system of
democracy (the politicalization, as it were, of the old
social organs) running through society. What these
separate or subordinate organs were to be, what relations
they were to have with the national government, and what
other intermediate institutions were to facilitate those relations
must be studied to gain a complete picture of the
democracy of Sun Yat-sen.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Confederacy Versus Centralism.</head>

<p>
One of the most involved questions in the political
thought of the Chinese revolution has been the problem of
provincial autonomy. The Chinese provinces differ considerably
more from one another in economic conditions,
language and race than do the American states; it has
been said that one of the causes of the overthrow of the
Manchu monarchy was the encroachment of the Imperial
central power, in its last desperate attempts to modernize
itself and cope with the last crisis, upon the old autonomy
of the provinces.<note place='foot'>Harold Monk Vinacke, <hi rend='italic'>Modern Constitutional Development in China</hi>,
Princeton, 1920, p. 100.</note> Institutionally, the provinces were
relatively independent; this degree of independence was,
however, minimized by the general unimportance of government
<pb n='228'/><anchor id='Pg228'/>
in Chinese society. The Chinese, toward each
other, feel conscious of family, village and provincial
ties; face to face with the foreigners, they are beginning to
know themselves as Chinese. Until the wave of nationalism
swept the country, provincial rivalry was a live issue;
even today, it cannot be called forgotten.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's opinions on many points of government
remained stable through his life. The fundamental ideas
and ideals seem to have been expanded, rather than
changed, as his theory met the test of his growing experience
and the lessons of the revolution; but even with
expansion, they remain, for the most part, consistent. Sun
Yat-sen was steadfast in his beliefs.
</p>

<p>
This cannot be said of his and his successors' opinions
on the problem of province versus nation. There is no one
doctrine dealing with the question of provincial autonomy.
There may be a trend, however, which can be described
as a swing from definite emphasis upon the province
toward neglect of that unit of administration. This trend
may be illustrated by several points.
</p>

<p>
At the time of the first Republic the provinces were
treated much as are states in the United States. The
members of the Senate of the Republic (<hi rend='italic'>Ts'an Yi Yuan</hi>)
were to be elected by the Assemblies of the provinces,
and, when representing persons not under the jurisdiction
of a provincial Assembly, by Electoral Colleges. The
House of Representatives was to be elected directly by
the people, in the proportion of one member to each
eight hundred thousand of population, with the reservation&mdash;again
in propitiation of provincial vanity&mdash;that no
province should have less than ten representatives.<note place='foot'>Vinacke, cited, p. 141 and following. While Dr. Vinacke's book is
now out of date, it contains excellent material for the period covered,
roughly 1898 to 1919. He quotes Morse's comment on the provinces with
approval: <q>The Provinces are satrapies to the extent that so long as the
tribute and matriculations are duly paid, and the general policy of the
central administration followed, they are free to administer their own
affairs in detail as may seem best to their own provincial authorities.</q>
(Hosea Ballou Morse, <hi rend='italic'>The Trade and Administration of China</hi>, London,
1913, p. 46, quoted in Vinacke, work cited, p. 5.)</note> The
<pb n='229'/><anchor id='Pg229'/>
first Republic was distinctly federal although by no means
confederate.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen did not immediately shift from this position.
As late as 1919-1922, when he was preparing his
official biography, he spoke enthusiastically to his biographer
of the potentialities of democratic provincial home
rule.<note place='foot'>Paul M. W. Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations with Sun Yat-sen</hi>, mss., 1934;
Book two, Chapter Five, <q>Democratic Provincial Home Rule.</q></note> He still believed in the importance of the provinces
as units of a future democracy in China.
</p>

<p>
From the time that Sun went South, and the Kuomintang
was reorganized, to the present, the tendency in the
Sun-Kuomintang theory seems to have been toward minimization
of the importance of the provinces in the democracy
to be set up. The Party Declaration of the Kuomintang
at its First National Convention in 1924 in Canton
criticised several political viewpoints prevalent; among
these was that of the Confederalists, so called. The
Declaration states, in part: <q>Undoubtedly regional self-government
is in entire accord with the spirit of democracy
and is a great need of our nation. But a true regional self-government
can be realized only when our national independence
is won, for without national freedom, local
freedom is impossible.... Many social, economic and
political problems facing the individual provinces can be
solved only by the nation as a whole. So the success of
the peoples' revolution is a prerequisite to the realization
of provincial autonomy.</q><note place='foot'>Hsü, cited, p. 124.</note>
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen himself stated, a few months earlier, a
point of view which may seem inconsistent with the Party
Declaration:
</p>

<pb n='230'/><anchor id='Pg230'/>

<quote rend='display'>
18. The <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Hsien</foreign> is the unit of self-government. The province
links up and provides means of co-operation between the Central
Government and the local governments of the districts.<note place='foot'>Tyau, cited, p. 441. From <q>The Outline of National Reconstruction.</q></note>
</quote>

<p>
Whatever the occasion for the slight difference of opinion,
it has been the policy of the Kuomintang to emphasize
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> rather than provinces as units of self-government.
The Party itself is quite centralized. The Resumé of the
Kuomintang Third National Congress Resolutions Concerning
Political Matters, adopted March 27, 1929, states
unequivocally: <q>The traditional policy of attaching greater
importance to provincial government than to <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Hsien</foreign> or
district government must be corrected or even reversed.</q>
It adds, <q>The provincial government, on the other hand,
shall act only as a supervisor of local self-government,
standing in between the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Hsien</foreign> or district government on
the one hand, and the Central Government on the other.</q><note place='foot'>Tyau, cited, p. 450.</note>
</p>

<p>
The province is thus reduced to the lowest possible level.
It is not probable that this tendency was influenced by
Marxism, but it certainly resembled the Marxian idea of a
vast confederation of self-governing communes, acting, by
some proletarian metempsychosis, as a highly centralized
instrument of revolution.<note place='foot'>V. I. Lenin, <hi rend='italic'>State and Revolution</hi>, New York, 1932. Lenin's discussion
of Marx's point, p. 39 and following, is stimulating although
inclining to the ingenious.</note> The doctrine of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>-province-nation
relationship which places emphasis upon
the first and the last is the authoritative one, and is quite
harmonious with the earlier picture of Imperial China
which, apart from the strictly governmental, was a vast
confederacy of largely autonomous communities. In the
picture of the new democratic national government which
emerges from this doctrine, the central government may be
regarded as a centralism versus the provinces, and a super-government
in relation to the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>; that is, while the
<pb n='231'/><anchor id='Pg231'/>
people govern themselves as groups in the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>, they will
govern themselves as one people in the National Government.
The province will remain as a convenient intermediary
between the two.
</p>

<p>
This is one of the few doctrines of Sun Yat-sen upon
which no one definitive and final pronouncement is to be
found and concerning which, consequently, recourse must
be had to the history of the development of the Sun
Yat-sen political philosophy.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Hsien</foreign> in a Democracy.</head>

<p>
The <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>, or district, was one of the most important
social institutions in old China. The lowest official, the
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> Magistrate, represented the Empire to the people
of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>, while within the villages or the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> the
people enjoyed a very high degree of autonomy. The
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> was the meeting point of the political system and
the extra-legal government, generally of a very vaguely
organized nature, by which the Chinese managed their
own affairs in accord with tradition. An estimate of the
position of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> may be gleaned from the fact that
China has approximately four hundred eighty million inhabitants;
apart from the cities and towns, there are about
half a million villages; and the whole country, with the
exception of certain Special Municipalities, such as Shanghai,
is divided into nineteen hundred and forty-three
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>.<note place='foot'>The number of the villages is taken from Tawney, Richard Henry,
<hi rend='italic'>Land and Labor in China</hi>, London, 1932; and the number of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> from
Tyau, cited, p. 85.</note>
</p>

<p>
The <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>, however significant they may be in the
social system of China, both past and present, cannot be
described in a work such as this. It is not inappropriate,
however, to reiterate that they form what is perhaps the
most important grouping within China, and that much of
<pb n='232'/><anchor id='Pg232'/>
Chinese life is centred in <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> affairs. It is by reason of
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> autonomy that the Chinese social system has been
so elastic as to permit the shocks of invasion, insurrection,
conquest, famine and flood to pass through and
over China without disrupting Chinese social organization.
</p>

<p>
Sun once quoted the old Chinese proverb about the
Lu Shan (mountains): <q>We cannot find the real shape
of the Lu Shan&mdash;for we ourselves are on it.</q> From the
viewpoint of the Western reader this proverb could be
turned against Sun in his treatment of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>. He was
passionately emphatic in discussing the importance of the
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> with his foreign friends;<note place='foot'>Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi>, cited above; throughout this volume,
Judge Linebarger recalls references made by Sun Yat-sen to him concerning
the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>.</note> in his writings, addressed
to his countrymen, he, as they, simply assumed the importance
of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> without troubling to make any
cardinal point of it.
</p>

<p>
The <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> is in the unit of the most direct self-government
of the people, without the interference of any elaborate
set-up from officialdom. Apart from its age-old
importance, it will gain further significance in the democracy
of Sun Yat-sen.
</p>

<p>
Some of the functions to be assigned to the people in
a <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> are assessment, registration, taxation, and/or purchase
of all lands in the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>; the collection of all
unearned increment on lands within the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>; land profits
to be subjected to collection by the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>, and disbursement
for public improvements, charitable work, or other public
service. Add this to the fact that the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> have been
the chief agencies for police, health, charity, religious
activity and the regulative control of custom&mdash;sometimes
with the assistance of persons&mdash;through the centuries, and
the great importance of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> in the nationalist democracy
becomes more clear.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='233'/><anchor id='Pg233'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Family System.</head>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's democracy differs further from the parliamentary,
mechanical democracy of the West in that it
incorporates the family system.<note place='foot'>It is but fair to state, at the beginning, that this point of the family
system as one of the institutions of the democratic nation has been very
largely neglected by the Kuomintang and the National Government. To
the knowledge of the author, no plan has ever been drafted either by Party
or by Government which would erect the system that Sun Yat-sen proposed.
It is not beyond all conjecture that Sun's suggestion may at a later
date seem more practicable to the leaders than now appears, and be put
into operation in some manner.</note> Of course Sun understood
the extraordinary part that the family plays in China&mdash;a
part more conspicuous, perhaps, than in any other
country. He pointed out that the family required in China
much of the loyalty which in the West is given to the
state. <q>Among the Chinese people the family and kinship
ties are very strong. Not infrequently the people sacrifice
their lives and homes for some affair of kinship; for
instance, in Kuangtung, two clans may fight regardless of
life and property. On the other hand, our people hesitate
to sacrifice themselves for a national cause. The spirit of
unity has not extended beyond the family and clan
relationships.</q><note place='foot'>Hsü, cited, p. 164.</note>
</p>

<p>
Speaking of the early Emperors and the revolution,
he said: <q>You see, gentlemen, the methodology of Yao,
like that of ours, was to begin his moral and political
teachings with the family, then the nation-group, then the
world.</q><note place='foot'>Hsü, cited, p. 243.</note> How did Sun Yat-sen propose to join the strength
of the family spirit and of nationalism, to the common
advantage?
</p>

<p>
He planned to reorganize the already existing clan
organizations in each district. These organizations have
existed from time immemorial for the purposes of preserving
<pb n='234'/><anchor id='Pg234'/>
clan unity, commemorating clan ancestry, performing
charitable functions, and acting as a focus&mdash;although
this last was not an avowed purpose&mdash;for clan
defense. The reorganization which Sun proposed would
probably have involved some systematizing of the organization
for the purposes of uniformity and official
record, as well as effectiveness.
</p>

<p>
Once the district headquarters were reorganized, they
could be combined throughout a province into a provincial
clan organization. Such organizations already exist,
but they are neither systematic nor general. After the
clan was organized on a provincial basis throughout the
provinces, the various provincial organizations could be
gathered together in a national clan organization.
</p>

<p>
It is only when one contemplates the strength of the
family system in China that the boldness of this plan
becomes apparent. A series of vast national clan organizations
would include practically every Chinese. Not content
with this, Sun proposed inter-clan organizations, certain
clans being more related to one another. A further
series of national inter-clan organizations would draw
together the allegiance of numberless individuals. There
was always the possibility that a convention of all the
clans might be called&mdash;although Sun was not sanguine
about this last.<note place='foot'>The material concerning the clans has been taken from the fifth lecture
on Nationalism (Hsü, cited, p. 240 and following; d'Elia, cited,
p. 174 and following). Judge Linebarger recorded Sun Yat-sen's mention
of a convention of the clans in <hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi>, cited above, Book One,
Chapter Eight, <q>The Clans in the Nation.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
This methodology, according to Sun Yat-sen, would
automatically bring about nationalism. The Chinese
people were already vigorously attached to their families
and clans. A union of all the families and clans would
lead the Chinese to realize that they were one people&mdash;one
enormous family, as it were&mdash;and cause them to
<pb n='235'/><anchor id='Pg235'/>
join together as a nation. Since there are only about four
hundred surnames in China, the alliance of the clans was
not so far-fetched a suggestion as it might seem. Some
clans have a membership running into the millions, and
clan spirit is so great that, in spite of the absence of
legislation, the Chinese marriage system is still largely
exogamic on this clan basis.
</p>

<p>
The suggestion of clan organization is relevant to Sun
Yat-sen's democracy, in that the clan was one of the
democratizing influences in old China. An individual who
failed to exert appreciable pressure on the government, or
on some other group, might appeal to his clan for assistance.
The Chinese record of relationships was kept so
extensively that there were few men of wealth or power
who did not have their kinsmen commanding their assistance.
The non-political authority of the family system
controlled many things which have been within the scope
of the police power in the West, and the adjustments of
society and the individual were frequently mitigated in
their harshness by the entrance of the clan upon the scene.
A stable Chinese democracy with a clan system would be
remarkably like the traditional system. The recourse of
political democracy would have been added, but the
familiar methods of political pressure upwards through
the clan to the government might, not inconceivably, prove
the more efficacious.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='236'/><anchor id='Pg236'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf' level1="Chapter VII. The Programs of Min Sheng."/>
<head>Chapter VII. The Programs of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min Shêng</foreign>.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf' level1="The Three Programs of Min Sheng."/>
<head>The Three Programs of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min Shêng</foreign>.</head>

<p>
The new ideology of Sun Yat-sen, as has been shown,
demanded three fulfilments of the doctrine of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>:
a nationalistic economic revolution, a deliberate industrial
revolution, and a social revolution. The last was to be accomplished
negatively rather than positively. It was to aim
at the reconstruction of the Chinese economy in such a
manner as to avoid the necessity of class war. Since
Chinese society was to be revolutionized by the development
of a nation and a state, with all that that implied,
and was to be changed by a transition from a handicraft
economy to an industrial one, Sun Yat-sen hoped that
these changes would permit the social revolution to develop
at the same time as the others, and did not plan
for it separately and distinctly. The three revolutions,
all of them economic, were to develop simultaneously,
and all together were to form a third of the process of
readjustment.
</p>

<p>
In considering the actual plans for carrying out the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign> principle, the student encounters difficulties. The
general philosophical position of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> ideology
in relation to the ideologies of nationalism and democracy,
and in connection with such foreign philosophies as capitalism
and Marxism, has already been set forth. The
direct plans that Sun Yat-sen had for the industrial
revolution in China are also clear, since he outlined them,
laboriously although tentatively, in <hi rend='italic'>The International
Development of China</hi>;<note place='foot'>There are three excellent discussions of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> programs.
Wou, cited, gives a clear precis of the doctrine. Hung Jair, <hi rend='italic'>Les idées
économiques de Sun Yat Sen</hi>, Toulouse, 1934, and Tsiang Kuen, <hi rend='italic'>Les
origines économiques et politiques du socialisme de Sun Yat Sen</hi>, Paris,
1933, cover essentially the same ground, although they are both doctoral
dissertations submitted to French universities. The former deals primarily
with the theory of Sun's economic ideas, contrasting them with the economic
thought of Adam Smith and of the Marxians. The latter gives a
rather extensive historical and statistical background to Sun's <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>,
and traces the Chinese economic system, whence <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> was derived
in part, quite fully. These authors have covered the field so widely that
the present work need not enter into the discussion of the precise immediate
policies to be advocated under <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>. Enough will be given to
describe the relations of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> with the more formally political principles
of nationalism and democracy, and to afford the reader an opportunity
to assess its scope and significance for himself. The works of Hung
Jair, Tsiang Kuen, Wou Saofong, and Li Ti-tsun all measure <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>
in terms of classical Western <foreign lang='fr' rend='italic'>laissez-faire</foreign> economics and then in terms of
Marxism; they all proceed in considerable detail to recapitulate the various
concrete plans that Sun projected. The present author will not enter into
the minutiae of the problems of clothing, of transport, of communications,
etc., inasmuch as they have already been dealt with and because they are
not directly relevant to the political or ideological features of Sun's
thought.</note> but whereas the ideology and
<pb n='237'/><anchor id='Pg237'/>
the actual physical blueprints can be understood clearly
enough, the general lines of practical governmental policy
with regard to economic matters have not been formulated
in such a way as to make them indisputable.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen was averse to tying the hands of his
followers and successors with respect to economic policy.
He said: <q>While there are many undertakings which can
be conducted by the State with advantage, others cannot
be conducted effectively except under competition. I have
no hard-and-fast dogma. Much must be left to the lessons
of experience.</q><note place='foot'>Tsui, cited, p. 378, n. 125.</note>
</p>

<p>
It would be inexpedient to go into details about railway
lines and other modern industrial enterprises by means of
which Sun sought to modernize China. On the other hand,
it would be a waste of time merely to repeat the main
economic theses of the new ideology. Accordingly, the
examination of the program of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> will be restricted
to the consideration of those features that affected
<pb n='238'/><anchor id='Pg238'/>
the state, either directly or indirectly, or which had an
important bearing upon the proposed future social organization
of the Chinese. Among the topics to be discussed
are the political nature of the national economic revolution,
the political effect of the industrial revolution upon the
Chinese, and the expediency of Sun's plans for that
revolution; the nature of the social revolution which was
to accompany these two first, especially with reference
to the problem of land, the problem of capital, and the
problem of the class struggle; the sphere of state action
in the new economy; and the nature of that ideal economy
which would be realized when the Chinese should have
carried to completion the programs of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>. Railway
maps and other designs of Sun, which have proved
such an inspiration in the modernization of China and
which represent a pioneer attempt in state planning, will
have to be left to the consideration of the economists and
the geographers.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>The International Development of China</hi> was welcomed as an interesting
fantasy in a world which had not yet heard of the Five Year Plans
and the programs of the New Deal. The fact that Sun Yat-sen was a few
years ahead of his contemporaries gave him the air of a dreamer, which
was scarcely deserved.</note>
</p>

<p>
The program of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> was vitally important to the
realization of the Nationalist revolution as a whole, so
important, indeed, that Sun Yat-sen put it first in one of
his plans:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
The first step in reconstruction is to promote the economic
well-being of the people by providing for their four necessities
of life, namely, food, clothing, shelter, and transportation. For
this purpose, the Government will, with the people's co-operation,
develop agriculture to give the people an adequate food
supply, promote textile industries to solve their clothing problem,
institute gigantic housing schemes to provide for them
decent living quarters, and build roads and canals so that they
may have convenient means of travel.
</p>

<pb n='239'/><anchor id='Pg239'/>

<p>
Next is the promotion of democracy....
</p>

<p>
The third step is the development of nationalism....<note place='foot'>Hsü translation, <q>The Outline of National Reconstruction,</q> p. 85.
Two points of detail may be noted here. In the first place, <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> has
been emphasized by being placed first, although Sun Yat-sen generally
arranged his principles in their logical order: nationalism, democracy,
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>. Secondly, <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, although emphasized, is dealt with in
one single paragraph in this vitally important document. The question of
the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign> is given eight paragraphs to the one on <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>. This is
indicative of the point stressed above, namely, that Sun Yat-sen, while he
was sure of the importance of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, did not believe in hard and fast
rules concerning its development.</note>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The plans for realizing <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> were to be the most
necessary and the most difficult. In the change from a
world-society to a race-nation, the Chinese had their own
social solidarity and the experience of the Western nations
to guide them. There was little in the development of a
nation that had not already been tried elsewhere. The
only real obstacles were the ignorance of the people, in
relation to the new social environment in which their
whole society was involved, and the possibility of opposition
from the politically oppressing powers.
</p>

<p>
In the development of democracy the Chinese could
rely in part upon the experience of the West. The
Kuomintang could observe the machinery of democratic
states in regular operation abroad. Although the new
democracy of the five powers and the four rights was
differed from the democratic methods of the West, still,
as in mechanics, certain fundamental rules of political
organization in its technical details could be relied upon.
The Chinese people had a democratic background in the
autonomy of the various extra-political units.
</p>

<p>
In <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> neither the experience of the West nor
the old Chinese background would be of much value.
More than the other two principles and programs, <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign> sought to alter the constitution and nature of Chinese
society. Yet in <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> the Chinese were to be
<pb n='240'/><anchor id='Pg240'/>
guided only negatively by Western experience. Into their
society, passing through a great economic upheaval, they
must introduce, by a trial-and-error method, the requirements
for economic unity, efficiency, and justice.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The National Economic Revolution.</head>

<p>
After the pitiable failure of the 1912 Republic, Sun
Yat-sen began to place an especially heavy emphasis on
the necessity of a national economic revolution which
would carry on the achievements of the national political
revolution. He placed an even greater stress upon the
necessity of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> in the revolutionary ideology,
and became more and more clearly conscious of the danger
imperialism constituted to the Chinese race-nation. He believed
that, as the 1912 revolution had been created by
the sword, the new economic revolution might be furthered
by the pen, and with this in mind he wrote <hi rend='italic'>The
International Development of China</hi>. At the time that he
wrote this work, he seems to have been convinced of the
fruitlessness of purely military effort, and the superior
value of pacific economic organization.<note place='foot'>Work cited, p. <ref target='Pg232'>232</ref>.</note>
</p>

<p>
This organization was to be effected through capital
brought in from the outside. As it developed that capital
would not come in, that instead of continuing the terrific
pace of production which the World War had demanded,
the nations returned to comparative laissez faire, and let
their economies slump, Sun was persuaded that the whole
revolution would have to be carried on by the Chinese
themselves, with the possible help of the Communist
Russians, and of Japan. He found the reorganized
Kuomintang to be the instrument of this last revolution,
both politically and democratically, and began to emphasize
Chinese resistance to the outside, rather than appeal
for help from the barbarian nations.
</p>

<pb n='241'/><anchor id='Pg241'/>

<p>
It is this last attitude which one finds expressed in the
acts of the last years of his life. The national revolution
was to be made a reality by being intimately associated
with the economic life and development of the country.
The plans made for economic development should be
pushed as far as possible without waiting for foreign
help. The Chinese should use the instrument of the boycott
as a sanction with which to give weight to their
national policy.<note place='foot'>See above, p. <ref target='Pg180'>180</ref> ff.</note> They had to practise economic nationalism
in order to rid themselves of the incubus of imperialism
which was sucking the life-blood of their country. In this
connection between nationalism and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, the economic
aspect of the nationalist program was to be the
means, and the national aspect of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> program
the consequence. Unless Chinese, both as members of a
state and as individuals stirred by national sentiment, were
moved to action against Western economic aggression,
they might consider themselves already doomed.
</p>

<p>
How did Sun propose to promote the national economic
revolution,<note place='foot'>The author uses the term <q>national economic revolution</q> to distinguish
those parts of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ming shêng chu i</foreign> which treat the transformation
of the Chinese economy in relation to the development of a nation-state.
Obviously, there is a great difference between the economy of a
society regarding itself as ecumenical, and one faced with the problem of
dealing with other equal societies. The presence of a state implies a certain
minimum of state interference with economic matters; the national
economic revolution of Sun Yat-sen was to give the Chinese economy a
national character, coordinating the economic with the other programs of
nationalism. Hence, the significant stress in the phrase <q>national economic
revolution</q> should rest upon the word <q>national.</q></note> as distinguished from the industrial revolution
and the social revolution? He gave, in the first place,
as earlier stated, the economic part of his theories a greater
weight than they had hitherto enjoyed, and placed them
first in his practical program. Secondly, he tended to
associate the national political revolution more and more
with the real seat of economic power: the working class.
<pb n='242'/><anchor id='Pg242'/>
In this introduction of the working class into the labors
for the fulfilment of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> as a national economic
revolution, he was doing two things. He was hoping to
bring the standards of Chinese labor up to those of the
West, and he was making use of the political power of
labor in China as an added instrument of the national
economic revolution.
</p>

<p>
The Chinese nation could and should not continue, as
a nation, on a scale of living lower than that of the
Western nations. He urged the Chinese workers, as the
class most affected, to fight for the economic advancement
of themselves and of their nation. <q>Comrades,
the people meeting here are all workers and represent a
part of the nation. A great responsibility rests on Chinese
labor, and if you are equal to the task, China will become
a great nation and you a mighty working class.</q><note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, cited, p. 329. <q>Genossen, die hier Versammelten
sind alle Arbeiter und stellen eine Teil der Nation dar. Auf den
chinesischen Arbeitern lastet eine grosse Verantwortung und wenn ihr
dieser Aufgabe entsprechen werdet, so wird China eine grosse Nation und
ihr eine mächtige Arbeiterklasse.</q></note> The
Chinese workers were performing not only a duty that
they owed to themselves&mdash;they were also acting patriotically.
</p>

<p>
In advancing the national economic revolution by advancing
themselves, they could not afford to lose sight
of the political part of the revolution. <q>Beyond the economic
struggle for the shortening of the working day and
the increase of wages, there are before you other much
more important questions of a political character. For
our political objectives you must follow the three principles
and support the revolution.</q><note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, p. 329. <q>Ausser dem wirtschaftlichen Kampf
für die Kürzung des Arbeitstages und die Erhöhung der Löhne stehen vor
Euch noch viel wichtigere Fragen von politischem Charakter. Für die politischen
Ziele müsst ihr meine Drei Prinzipien befolgen und die Revolution
unterstützen.</q></note> The two parts of the
revolution could not be separated from one another.
</p>

<pb n='243'/><anchor id='Pg243'/>

<p>
Besides the economic part of the national revolution,
there was another readjustment of which Sun did not often
speak, because it was not an open problem which could
be served by immediate political action. This was the
problem of the transition of China from an autarchic to a
trading economy. The old Chinese world had been self-sustaining,
so self-sustaining that the Emperor Tao Kuang
wrote to George III of England that he did not desire
anything that the barbarians might have, but, out of the
mercy and the bounty of his heart, would permit them to
come to China in order to purchase the excellent things
that the Chinese possessed in such abundance.<note place='foot'>Putnam Weale, <hi rend='italic'>The Vanished Empire</hi>, London, 1926, pp. 145-147.
The same observation had been made to the Russian ambassador, Vladislavich,
sent by Catherine I to Peking in 1727. The Chinese said at that
time, <q> ... that foreign trade had no attraction for the people, who
were amply supplied with all the necessaries of life from the products of
their own country.</q> Sir Robert K. Douglas, <hi rend='italic'>Europe and the Far East
1506-1912</hi>, New York, 1913, pp. 28-29.</note> The
impact of the West had had serious economic consequences,<note place='foot'>See above, p. <ref target='Pg047'>47</ref> ff.</note>
and the Chinese were in the unpleasant position
of having their old economic system disrupted without
gaining the advantages of a nationally organized economy
in return. They had the actual privilege of consuming a
greater variety of goods than before, but this was offset
by the fact that the presence of these goods threw their
domestic markets and old native commercial system out
of balance, without offering a correspondingly large potentiality
of foreign export. Furthermore, the political
position of the Western powers in China was such, as Sun
Yat-sen complained, that trade was conducted on a somewhat
inequitable basis.
</p>

<p>
The consequences of a national economic revolution
could not but be far-reaching. The political changes in the
economic situation demanded by Sun Yat-sen in his program
of economic nationalism&mdash;the return of tariff autonomy,
<pb n='244'/><anchor id='Pg244'/>
the retrocession of the occupied concessions,
etc.&mdash;would have a great positive and immediate effect;
but there would be a long system of development, not to
be so easily predicted or foreseen, which would inevitably
appear as a result of Chinese nationhood. If China were
to have a state strong enough to perform the economic
functions which Sun wished to have imposed upon it, and
were to take her place as one of the great importing and
exporting nations of the world, it is obvious that a real
economic revolution would have to be gone through.
</p>

<p>
Here again the liberal-national character of Sun's ideology
and programs with respect to relations with the
West appears. The Fascist states of the present time
exhibit a definite drift from free trade to autarchy. In
China the change from an autarchic world-society to a
trading nation constituted the reverse. Sun Yat-sen did
not leave a large legacy of programs in this connection,
but he foresaw the development and was much concerned
about it.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Industrial Revolution.</head>

<p>
The program of industrial revolution was planned by
Sun Yat-sen with great care. The same belief which led
him to urge the social revolution also guided him in his
plans for the industrial revolutionizing of the Chinese
economy, namely, his belief that China could profit by the
example of the West, that what the West had done wastefully
and circuitously could be done by the Chinese deliberately
and straightforwardly. He proposed that the
change from the old economy to the new be according to a
well thought out plan. <q>However, China must develop
her industries by all means. Shall we follow the old path
of western civilization? This old path resembles the sea
route of Columbus' first trip to America. He set out from
Europe by a southwesterly direction through the Canary
Islands to San Salvador, in the Bahama group. But nowadays
<pb n='245'/><anchor id='Pg245'/>
navigators take a different direction to America and
find that the destination can be reached by a distance
many times shorter. The path of Western civilization was
an unknown one and those who went before groped in
the dark as Columbus did on his first voyage to America.
As a late comer, China can greatly profit in covering the
space by following the direction already charted by western
pioneers.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>International Development</hi>, cited, p. 237.</note> By calling in the help of friends who were
familiar with engineering and by using his own very extensive
knowledge of Chinese economic potentialities, Sun
Yat-sen drafted a broad long-range plan by means of
which China would be able to set forth on such a charted
course in her industrial revolution. This plan, offered
tentatively, was called <hi rend='italic'>The International Development of
China</hi> in the English and <hi rend='italic'>The Outline of Material Reconstruction</hi>
in the Chinese version, both of which Sun
himself wrote.
</p>

<p>
This outline was originally prepared as a vast plan
which could be financed by the great powers, who would
thereby find markets for their glut of goods left over by
the war. The loan was to be made on terms not unprofitable
to the financial powers, but nevertheless equitable
to the Chinese. Sun Yat-sen hoped that with these
funds the Chinese state could make a venture into state
socialism. It was possible, in his opinion, to launch a
coöperative modern economy in China with the assistance
of international capitalism, if the capital employed were
to be remunerated with attractive rates of interest, and if
the plan were so designed as to allow for its being financially
worthwhile. He stated:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Before entering into the details of this International development
scheme four principles have to be considered:
</p>

<list type='ordered'>
<item> The most remunerative field must be selected in order to
attract foreign capital.</item>
<pb n='246'/><anchor id='Pg246'/>
<item>The most urgent needs of the nation must be met.</item>
<item>The lines of least resistance must be followed.</item>
<item>The most suitable positions must be chosen.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>International Development</hi>, p. 12.</note></item>
</list>

</quote>

<p>
He was not oblivious to the necessity of making each
detail of his plan one which would not involve the
tying-up of unproductive capital, and did not propose to
use capital advanced for the purposes of the industrial
revolution for the sake of military or political advantage.
</p>

<p>
This may be shown in a concrete instance. He spoke of
his Great Northeastern railway system as a scheme which
might not seem economically attractive, and then pointed
out that, as between a railway system running between
densely-populated areas, the latter would be infinitely the
more preferable. But, said he, <q>... a railway between a
densely populated country and a sparsely settled country
will pay far better than one that runs end to end in a
densely populated land.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>International Development</hi>, p. 21.</note>
</p>

<p>
Even though he came to despair of having this scheme
for the development of China carried out by international
financial action, the expediency of his plans remained. He
sought the fulfillment of this outline throughout his life;
it has remained as a part of his legacy, challenging the
Chinese people by the grandeur of its conception and the
precision of its details.
</p>

<p>
It is a work which cannot easily be summarized in a discussion
of political doctrines. Fully comparable in grandeur
to the Russian <hi rend='italic'>Piatiletka</hi>, it provides for a complete
communication system including all types of transport,
the development of great ports, colonization and reclamation
projects, and the growth of vast industrial areas comparable
to the Donbas or the Kuzbas. The plan, while
sound as a whole and not inexpedient in detail, is not
marked by that irregularity of proportion which marks
<pb n='247'/><anchor id='Pg247'/>
planning under capitalism; although not as fully worked
out as the later Russian projects, Sun's plan, in 1922, was
considerably more advanced than any Russian plan of that
time. Sun shared with Lenin a passionate conviction of
the inevitable necessity of industrialization; but while
Lenin saw in industrialism the strengthening of that revolutionary
bulwark, the proletariat, Sun believed in industrialism
as a benefit to the whole nation.
</p>

<p>
This plan is the obvious fruit of Sun's advocacy of the
adoption of the Western physical sciences. Here there is
little trace of his ideological consistency with the old
premises of Chinese society. He does not challenge them,
but he does present a concrete plan which refers only
incidentally to the political or the ideological. It is heavy
with the details of industrial revolution. Sun Yat-sen's
enthusiasm shows clearly through the pages of this work;
he wrote it at a time when his health was still comparatively
good, and when he was not harassed by the almost
explosive dynamics of the situation such as that in which
he delivered the sixteen lectures on the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>.
Here the practical aspects of his thinking show forth,
his willingness to consider and debate, the profound and
quiet enthusiasm for concrete projects which animated him
and which was so infectious among his followers.
</p>

<p>
It were, of course, unfeasable to attempt any detailed
description and assessment of the plan.<note place='foot'>Wou Saofong, cited, gives an excellent summary of the plan, pp. 184-202.
There is no particular reason, however, why the work by Sun, which
he wrote in fluent and simple English, should not be consulted. The
American edition is so well put together with maps and outlines that a
layman will find it comprehensible and stimulating.</note> The great
amount of point by point elaboration worked over by Sun
Yat-sen in order to make his plan appealing precludes
the consideration of any one project in detail as a sample.
Failing this, the magnitude of the plan may be gauged by
a recapitulation of the chief points in each of his programs.
<pb n='248'/><anchor id='Pg248'/>
It must be remembered, however, that each one of these
subheads might necessitate hundreds of millions of dollars
for execution, involving the building of several industrial
cities or the reconstruction of a whole industry throughout
the country. The printing industry, for example, not
even mentioned in the general outline given below, was
discussed as follows:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
This industry provides man with intellectual food. It is a
necessity of modern society, without which mankind cannot progress.
All human activities are recorded, and all human knowledge
is stored in printing. It is a great factor of civilization.
The progress and civilization of different nations of the world
are measured largely by the quantity of printed matter they
turned out annually. China, though the nation that invented
printing, is very backward in the development of its printing
industry. In our international Development Scheme, the printing
industry must also be given a place. If China is developed
industrially according to the lines which I suggested, the demand
for printed matter will be exceedingly great. In order to meet
this demand efficiently, a system of large printing houses must
be established in all large cities in the country, to undertake
printing of all kinds, from newspapers to encyclopedia [sic!].
The best modern books on various subjects in different countries
should be translated into Chinese and published in cheap edition
form for the general public in China. All the publishing houses
should be organized under one common management, so as to
secure the best economic results.
</p>

<p>
In order to make printed matter cheap, other subsidiary industries
must be developed at the same time. The most important
of these is the paper industry. At present all the paper used by
newspapers in China is imported. And the demand for paper
is increasing every day. China has plenty of raw materials for
making paper, such as the vast virgin forests of the northwestern
part of the country, and the wild reeds of the Yangtze and its
neighboring swamps which would furnish the best pulps. So,
large plants for manufacturing paper should be put up in suitable
locations. Besides the paper factories, ink factories, type
<pb n='249'/><anchor id='Pg249'/>
foundries, printing machine factories, etc., should be established
under a central management to produce everything that is needed
in the printing industry.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>International Development</hi>, pp. 220-221.</note>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
With this comment on printing as a small sample of
the extent of each minor project in the plans, let us
observe Sun's own summary:
</p>

<list type='gloss'>
<label>I.</label><item>The Development of a Communications System.
<list type='gloss'>
<label>(a)</label><item>100,000 miles of Railways.</item>
<label>(b)</label><item>1,000,000 miles of Macadam Roads.</item>
<label>(c)</label><item>Improvement of Existing Canals.
<list type='gloss'>
<label>(1)</label><item>Hangchow-Tientsin Canals.</item>
<label>(2)</label><item>Sikiang-Yangtze Canals.</item></list></item>
<label>(d)</label><item>Construction of New Canals.
<list type='gloss'>
<label>(1)</label><item>Liaoho-Sunghwakiang Canal.</item>
<label>(2)</label><item>Others to be projected.</item></list></item>
<label>(e)</label><item>River Conservancy.
<list type='gloss'>
<label>(1)</label><item>To regulate the Embankments and Channel
of the Yangtze River from Hankow
to the Sea thus facilitating Ocean-going
ships to reach that Port at all seasons.</item>
<label>(2)</label><item>To regulate the Hoangho Embankments
and Channel to prevent floods.</item>
<label>(3)</label><item>To regulate the Sikiang.</item>
<label>(4)</label><item>To regulate the Hwaiho.</item>
<label>(5)</label><item>To regulate various other rivers.</item></list></item>
<label>(f)</label><item>The Construction of more Telegraph Lines and
Telephones and Wireless Systems all over the
Country.</item></list></item>
<label>II.</label><item>The Development of Commercial Harbors.
<list type='gloss'>
<label>(a)</label><item>Three largest Ocean Ports with future capacity
equalling New York Harbor to be constructed
in North, Central and South China.</item>
<pb n='250'/><anchor id='Pg250'/>
<label>(b)</label><item>Various small Commercial and Fishing Harbors to
be constructed along the Coast.</item>
<label>(c)</label><item>Commercial Docks to be constructed along all navigable
rivers.</item></list></item>
<label>III.</label><item>Modern Cities with public utilities to be constructed in all
Railway Centers, Termini, and alongside Harbors.</item>
<label>IV.</label><item>Water Power Development.</item>
<label>V.</label><item>Iron and Steel Works and Cement Works on the largest
scale in order to supply the above needs.</item>
<label>VI.</label><item>Mineral Development.</item>
<label>VII.</label><item>Agricultural Development.</item>
<label>VIII.</label><item>Irrigational Work on the largest scale in Mongolia and
Sinkiang.</item>
<label>IX.</label><item>Reforestation in Central and North China.</item>
<label>X.</label><item>Colonization in Manchuria, Mongolia, Sinkiang, Kokonor,
and Thibet.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>International Development</hi>, pp. 6-8.</note></item>
</list>

<p>
The industrial revolution is to <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> what the
present program of socialist construction is to the
Marxians of the Soviet Union, what prosperity is to American
democracy. Without industrialization <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> must
remain an academic theory. Sun's program gives a definite
physical gauge by means of which the success of his
followers can be told, and the extent of China's progress
estimated. It provides a material foundation to the social
and political changes in China.
</p>

<p>
The theory of Sun Yat-sen in connection with the continuation
of the old system is a significant one. His political
doctrines, both ideological and programmatic, are
original and not without great meaning in the development
of an adequate and just state system in modern
China. But this work might have been done, although
perhaps not as well, by other leaders. The significance of
Sun in his own lifetime lay in his deliberate championing
<pb n='251'/><anchor id='Pg251'/>
of the cause of industrial revolution as the <foreign rend='italic'>sine qua non</foreign>
of development in China. In the epoch of the first Republic
he relinquished the Presidency in favor of Yüan
Shih-k'ai in order to be able to devote his whole time to
the advancement of the railway program of the Republic.
In the years that he had to spend in exile, he constantly
studied and preached the necessity of modernizing China.
Of his slogan, <q>Modernization without Westernization!</q>
modernization is the industrial revolution, and non-Westernization
the rest of his programs and ideology.
The unity of Sun Yat-sen's doctrines is apparent; they are
inseparable; but if one part were to be plucked forth as
his greatest contribution to the working politics of his own
time, it might conceivably be his activities and plans for
the industrial revolution.
</p>

<p>
He spoke feelingly and bitterly of the miserable lives
which the vast majority of his countrymen had to lead, of
the expensiveness and insecurity of their material existences,
of the vast, tragic waste of human effort in the
form of man-power in a world where machine-power had
rendered muscular work unnecessary. <q>This miserable
condition among the Chinese proletariat [he apparently
means the whole working class] is due to the non-development
of the country, the crude methods of production,
and the wastefulness of labor. The radical cure for all
this is industrial development by foreign capital and
experts for the benefit of the whole nation.... If
foreign capital cannot be gotten, we will have to get at
least their experts and inventors to make for us our own
machinery....</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>International Development</hi>, p. 198.</note> Howsoever the work was to be done,
it had to be done. In bringing China into the modern
world, in modernizing her economy, in assuring the justice
of the new economy which was to emerge, Sun found the
key in the physical advancement of China, in the building
<pb n='252'/><anchor id='Pg252'/>
of vast railway systems, in creating ports <q>with future
capacity equalling New York harbor,</q> in re-making the
whole face of Eastern Asia as a better home for his beloved
race-nation.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Social Revolution.</head>

<p>
In considering the social revolution which was to form
the third part of the program of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, four questions
appear, each requiring examination. It is in this field of
Sun's programs that the terms of the Western ideology
are most relevant, since the ideological distinctions to be
found in old China as contrasted with the West do not
apply so positively in problems that are to appear in a
society which is to be industrially modern. Even in this,
however, some of the old Chinese ideas may continue in
use and give relevance to the terms with which Sun discusses
the social revolution. Private property, that mysterious
relation between an individual and certain goods
and services, has been almost a fetish in the West; the
Chinese, already subject to the collectivisms of the family,
the village and the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign>, does not have the deep attachment
to this notion that Westerners&mdash;especially those who do
have property&mdash;are apt to develop. Consequently, even
though the discussion of Sun's programs with regard to
distributive justice are remarkably like the discussions of
the same problem to be found in the West, the possibility,
at least, of certain minor though thoroughgoing differences
must be allowed for, and not overlooked altogether. The
four aspects to this problem which one may distinguish
in Sun's program for <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> are: what is to be the
sphere of state action? what is to be the treatment accorded
private ownership of land? what is to be the
position of private capital? and, what of the class
struggle?
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen said: <q>In modern civilization, the material
essentials of life are five, namely: food, clothing, shelter,
<pb n='253'/><anchor id='Pg253'/>
means of locomotion, and the printed page.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>International Development</hi>, p. 199. Sun Yat-sen discussed only two
of these essentials (food, clothing) in his lectures on the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>.
According to Tai Chi-tao, he was to have continued to speak on the topics
of <q>Housing,</q> <q>Health,</q> <q>Death,</q> <q>Conclusions on Livelihood,</q> and
<q>Conclusions on the San Min Doctrine,</q> but the only person who may
know what he intended to say on these subjects is Mme. Sun Yat-sen.
(See Hsü translation, <q>The Basic Literature of Sunyatsenism,</q> pp. 39-40.)</note> At other
times he may have made slightly different arrangements
of these fundamental necessities, but the essential content
of the demands remained the same.
</p>

<p>
Behind his demand for a program to carry out <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign> there was the fundamental belief that a government
which does not assure and promote the material welfare
of the masses of its citizens does not deserve to exist. To
him the problem of livelihood, the concrete aspect of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign>, was one which had to be faced by every government,
and was a means of judging the righteousness of a government.
He could not tolerate a state which did not assure
the people a fair subsistence. There was no political or
ethical value higher than life itself. A government which
did not see that its subjects were fed, sheltered, clothed,
transported, and lettered to the degree which the economic
level of its time permitted, was a government deserving
of destruction. Sun Yat-sen was not a doctrinaire on the
subject of classes; he would tolerate inequality, so long
as it could be shown not to militate against the welfare
of the people. He was completely intolerant of any
government, Eastern or Western, which permitted its subjects
to starve or to be degraded into a nightmare existence
of semi-starvation. Whatever the means, this end of
popular livelihood, of a reasonable minimum on the scale
of living for each and every citizen, had to prevail above
all others.<note place='foot'>This is based upon statements made by Judge Linebarger to the
author. According to him, Sun Yat-sen had few of the prejudices of class,
one way or the other, that affect the outlook of so many Western leaders.
He did not believe that the only possible solution to the problem of livelihood
was the Marxian one, and was confident that the Chinese Nationalists
would be able to solve the problem. This question was to him paramount
above all others; the life of the masses of Chinese citizens was the life of
China itself.</note>
</p>

<pb n='254'/><anchor id='Pg254'/>

<p>
Within the limits of this supreme criterion, Sun Yat-sen
left the government to its own choice in the matter of the
sphere of state action. If the system of private initiative
could develop more efficiently than could the government
in certain fields, then leave those fields to private effort.
If and when private initiative failed to meet rigid requirements
to be established by the government it was not
merely the privilege, it was the obligation of the government
to intervene. Sun Yat-sen seems to have believed
that government action would in the long run be desirable
anyhow, but to have been enough of a political realist
at the same time to be willing to allow the government
a considerable length of time in expanding its activities.
In a developing country like China it seemed to him
probable that the ends of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ming shêng</foreign> could best be served
in many fields by private enterprise. <q>All matters that
can be and are better carried out by private enterprise
should be left to private hands which should be encouraged
and fully protected by liberal laws....</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>International Development</hi>, p. 11.</note>
</p>

<p>
From the outset, Sun Yat-sen's plan of empirical collectivism
demanded a fairly broad range of state action.
<q>All matters that cannot be taken up by private concerns
and those that possess monopolistic character should be
taken up as national undertakings.</q><note place='foot'>The same, p. 11.</note> This view of his
may be traced, among others, to three suppositions he
entertained concerning Bismarck, concerning "war socialism,"
and concerning the industrial revolution in China.
Sun shows a certain grudging admiration for Bismarck,
whom he believed to have offset the rising tide of democratic
socialism in Germany by introducing state socialism,
<pb n='255'/><anchor id='Pg255'/>
in government control of railroads, etc. <q>By this preventive
method he imperceptibly did away with the controversial
issues, and since the people had no reason to fight,
a social revolution was naturally averted. This was the
very great anti-democratic move of Bismarck.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 326. The discussion of Bismarck runs
from p. 322 to 326; the length of the discussion shows what Sun thinks
of Bismarck's acuteness, although he disapproved of Bismarck's anti-democratic
stand.</note> Secondly,
he believed that the <q>... unification and nationalization
of all the industries, which I might call the Second Industrial
Revolution ...</q> on account of the world war
would be even more significant than the first.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>International Development</hi>, p. 4.</note> It intensified
the four elements of recent economic progress, which
tended to prove the falsity of the Marxian predictions of
the future of capitalism, namely: <q>a. Social and industrial
improvements (i. e. labor and welfare legislation); b.
State ownership of the means of transportation and of
communication; c. Direct taxes; d. Socialized distribution
(the coöperative movement).</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 426.</note> Finally, Sun believed
that the magnitude of the Chinese industrial revolution
was such that no private capital could establish its foundations,
and that the state had perforce to initiate the great
undertakings of industrialism.
</p>

<p>
Concerning Sun's beliefs regarding the sphere of state
action in economic matters, one may say that his ideology
of empirical collectivism required a program calling for:
1) the protection of private enterprise and the simultaneous
launching of great state enterprises at the beginning;
2) the intermediate pursuance of a policy by means
of which the state would be the guarantor of the livelihood
of the people, and establish the sphere of its own
action according to whether or not private enterprise was
sufficient to meet the needs of the people; and 3) a long
range trend toward complete collectivism.
</p>

<pb n='256'/><anchor id='Pg256'/>

<p>
With respect to the question of land, Sun Yat-sen believed
in his own version of the <q>single tax,</q> which was
not, in his programs, the single tax, since he foresaw
other sources of revenue for the state (tariffs, revenue
from state enterprises, etc.). According to the land-control
system of Sun Yat-sen the land-owner would himself
assess the value of his land. He would be prevented from
over-assessing it by his own desire to avoid paying too
high a tax; and under-assessment would be avoided by a
provision that the state could at any time purchase the
land at the price set by the owner. If the land were to
go up in value the owner would have to pay the difference
between the amount which he formerly assessed and
the amount which he believed it to be worth at the later
time. The money so paid would become <q>... a public
fund as a reward, to all those who had improved the
community and who had advanced industry and commerce
around the land. The proposal that all future increment
shall be given to the community is the <q>equalization of
land ownership</q> advocated by the Kuomintang; it is the
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min-sheng</foreign> Principle. This form of the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min-sheng</foreign> Principle
is communism, and since the members of the Kuomintang
support the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>San Min</foreign> Principles they should not
oppose communism.</q> Continuing directly, Sun makes
clear the nature of the empirical collectivism of his <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign> program, which he calls communism. <q>The great
aim of the Principle of Livelihood in our Three Principles
is communism&mdash;a share in property by all. But the communism
which we propose is a communism of the future,
not of the present. This communism of the future is a
very just proposal, and those who have had property in
the past will not suffer at all by it. It is a very different
thing from what is called in the West <q>nationalization of
<pb n='257'/><anchor id='Pg257'/>
property,</q> confiscation for the government's use of private
property which the people already possess.</q><note place='foot'>Price translation, pp. 434-435. In the d'Elia translation, pp. 465-466.
The Price translation has been quoted in this instance because Father
d'Elia translates <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> as <q>the economic Demism,</q> which&mdash;although
interesting when used consistently&mdash;might not be clear in its present context.
Sun Yat-sen's courteous use of the word <q>communism,</q> in view of
the Canton-Moscow entente then existing, has caused a great deal of confusion.
The reader may judge for himself how much Sun's policy constitutes
communism.</note> Sun Yat-sen
declared that the solution to the land problem would be
half of the solution of the problem of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>.<note place='foot'>One or two further points concerning the land policy may be mentioned.
In the first place, it is the land which is to be taxed. A tax will
be applied, according to this theory, on the land, and the increment will
also be confiscated. These are two separate forms of revenue. Furthermore,
lest all land-holders simply surrender their land to the government,
Sun makes clear that his taxation program applies only to land. It would
consequently be quite advantageous for the owner to keep the land; the
buildings on it would not be affected by the increment-seizure program,
and the land would be worth keeping. <q>The value of the land as declared
at present by the landowner will still remain the property of each individual
landowner.</q> (d'Elia translation, p. 466; Father d'Elia's note on
this page is informing.) The landowner might conceivably put a mortgage
on the land to pay the government the amount of the unearned increment,
and still make a handsome enough profit from the use of the land to
amortize the mortgage.</note>
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen believed in the restriction of private capital
in such a way as to assure its not becoming a socially
disruptive force. That is a part of his ideology which we
have already examined. In the matter of an actual program,
he believed in the use of <q>harnessed capital.</q><note place='foot'>Linebarger, <hi rend='italic'>Conversations</hi>, Book III, p. 25.</note>
He had no real fear of capital; imperialist foreign capital
was one thing&mdash;the small native capital another. The
former was a political enemy. The latter was not formidable.
In a speech on Red Labor Day, 1924, when his
sympathies were about as far Left as they ever were, in
consideration for the kindliness of the Communist assistance
to Canton, he said: <q>Chinese capitalists are not so
<pb n='258'/><anchor id='Pg258'/>
strong that they could oppress the Chinese workers,</q><note place='foot'>Wittfogel, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen</hi>, p. 328. <q>Die chinesischen Kapitalisten sind
nicht so stark, dass sie die chinesischen Arbeiter unterdrücken könnten.</q></note>
and added that, the struggle being one with imperialism,
the destruction of the Chinese capitalists would not solve
the question.
</p>

<p>
The restriction of private capital to the point of keeping
it harmless, and thus avoiding the evils which would lead
to the class war and a violent social revolution, was only
half the story of capitalism in China which Sun Yat-sen
wanted told in history. The other half was the advancement
of the industrial revolution by the state, which was
the only instrumentality capable of doing this great work.
<q>China cannot be compared to foreign countries. It is
not sufficient (for her) to impose restrictions upon capital.
Foreign countries are rich, while China is poor.... For
that reason China must not only restrict private capital,
but she must also develop the capital of the State.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 469. Italics omitted. For the discussion
of the relation of the program of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> to capitalism, see d'Elia's
various footnotes and appendices dealing with the subject. Father d'Elia,
as a devout Catholic, does a thorough piece of work in demonstrating that
Sun Yat-sen was not a Bolshevik and not hostile to the Roman Catholic
Church, and had a warm although infrequently expressed admiration for
that organization. Li Ti-tsun, in <q>The Sunyatsenian Principle of Livelihood,</q>
cited, tries to find the exact shade of left orientation in <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>,
and digests the main policies. Wou and Tsui, both cited, also discuss this
point.</note>
The restrictions to be placed upon private capital and
upon private land speculation were negative; the development
of state-owned capital and of capital which the state
could trust politically were positive, as was the revenue
which should be gained from the governmental seizure
of unearned increment. In some cases the state would not
even have to trouble itself to confiscate the unearned increment;
it could itself develop the land and profit by its
rise in value, applying the funds thus derived to the paying-off
<pb n='259'/><anchor id='Pg259'/>
of foreign loans or some socially constructive
enterprise.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>International Development</hi>, pp. 36-39.</note>
</p>

<p>
Ideologically, Sun Yat-sen was opposed to the intra-national
class war. Class war could, nevertheless, be
justified in the programs of Sun in two ways: 1) if it
were international class war, of the oppressed against the
oppressing nations; and 2) if it were the class war of the
nationalist Chinese workers against foreign imperialism.
In these two cases Sun Yat-sen thought class-war a good
idea. He did not think class war necessary in contemporary
China, and hoped, by means of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, to develop
an economy so healthy that the pathological phenomena
of the class struggle would never appear. On
the other hand, in justice to Sun, and to those Marxians
who would apologize for him to their fellow-Marxians,
there can be little doubt that Sun Yat-sen would have approved
of the class war, even in China, if he had thought
that Chinese capitalism had risen to such power that it
obstructed the way of the Chinese nation to freedom and
economic health. Even in this he might not have set any
particular virtue upon the proletariat as such; the capitalists
would be the enemies of the nation, and it would
be the whole nation which would have to dispose of them.
</p>

<p>
A finically Scrupulous and detailed examination of Sun
Yat-sen's programs for <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> is intellectually unremunerative,
since it has been established that <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>
may be called empirical collectivism; collectivism which is
empirical cannot be rigidly programmatic, or it loses its
empirical character. Sun, not accepting the dialectics of
historical materialism, and following the traditionally
Chinese pragmatic way of thinking, could not orient his
revolution in a world of economic predestinations. With
the characteristic Chinese emphasis on men rather than
on rules and principles, Sun Yat-sen knew that if China
<pb n='260'/><anchor id='Pg260'/>
were ruled by the right sort of men, his programs would
be carried through in accordance with the expediency of
the moment. He does not appear to have considered, as
do some of the left wing, that it was possible for the revolutionary
movement to be diverted to the control of unworthy
persons. Even had he foreseen such a possible
state of affairs, he would not, in all probability, have settled
his programs any more rigidly; he knew, from the
most intimate and heart-breaking experience, how easy it
is in China to pay lip-service to principles which are rejected.
The first Republic had taught him that.
</p>

<p>
One must consequently regard the programs of national
economic revolution, of industrial revolution, and of social
revolution as tentative and general outlines of the
course which Sun wished the Nationalist Kuomintang and
state to follow in carrying out <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>. Of these programs,
the one least likely to be affected by political or
personal changes was that of the industrial revolution,
and it is this which is most detailed.<note place='foot'>By an irony of fate, the most conspicuous example of the realization
of any one of these plans was the beginning of the port of Hulutao, which
was to be <q>The Great Northern Port</q> of Sun's vision. The National
Government had already started work on this port when the Japanese,
invading Manchuria, took it. There is so much pathos in Sun's own life
that this frustation of his plans after his death seems disappointing beyond
words to his followers. In his own trust in mankind, in the eagerness and
the sincerity of his enthusiasms, in the grandeur of his vision&mdash;here are to
be found the most vital clues to the tragedy of Sun Yat-sen. Like the
other great founders of the earth's ideals, he charted worlds within the
vision but, perhaps, beyond the accomplishment of ordinary men.</note> His great desire
was that the Chinese race-nation continue, not merely to
subsist, but to thrive and multiply and become great, so
that it could restore the ancient morality and wisdom of
China, as well as become proficient in the Western
sciences.
</p>

<p>
A last suggestion may be made concerning the programs
of Sun Yat-sen, before consideration of the Utopia
<pb n='261'/><anchor id='Pg261'/>
which lay at the end of the road of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>. His plans
may continue to go on in <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> because they are so
empirical. His nationalism may be deflected or altered by
the new situation in world politics. His optimism concerning
the rapidity of democratic developments may not
be justified by actual developments. The programs of
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> are so general that they can be followed to
some degree by governments of almost any orientation
along the Right-Left scale. The really important criterion
in the programs of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> is this: the people must
live. It is a simple one to understand, and may be a great
force in the continued development of his programs, to
the last stage of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf' level1="The Utopia of Min Shêng."/>
<head>The Utopia of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>Min Shêng</foreign>.</head>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen differs from the empirical collectivists of
the West in that he has an end to his program, which is
to be achieved over a considerable period of time. The
means are such that he can be classified with those Western
thinkers; his goal is one which he took from the ideals
in the old ideology and which he identified with those
of the communists, although not necessarily with the
Marxists. He said, at the end of his second lecture on
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>:
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Our way is community of industrial and social profits. We
cannot say, then, that the doctrine of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> is different from
communism. The <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi> means a government <q>of the
people, by the people, and for the people</q>&mdash;that is, the state is
the common property of all the people, its politics are participated
in by all, and its profits are shared by all. Then there will
be not only communism in property, but communism in everything
else. Such will be the ultimate end of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, a state
which Confucius calls <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ta t'ung</foreign> or the age of <q>great similarity.</q><note place='foot'>Hsü translation, cited, p. 440; Price translation, p. 444; d'Elia translation,
cited, p. 476. The first has been preferred purely as a matter of
style. The Chinese words <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> and <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</foreign> have been used
instead of the English renderings which Hsü gives, again as a pure matter
of form and consistency with the text.</note>
</quote>

<pb n='262'/><anchor id='Pg262'/>

<p>
Perhaps no other passage from the works of Sun Yat-sen
in relation to <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign> could illustrate his position
so aptly. He describes his doctrine. He labels it <q>communism,</q>
although, as we have seen, it is quite another
thing than Marxism. He cites Lincoln. In the end he
calls upon the authority of Confucius.
</p>

<p>
To a Westerner, the ideal commonwealth of Sun Yat-sen
bears a remarkable resemblance to the world projected
in the ideals of the ancient Chinese. Here again
there is <q>great similarity,</q> complete ideological harmony,
and the presumable disappearance of state and law. Property,
the fount of war, has been set aside, and men&mdash;animated
by a profound and sincere appreciation of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>&mdash;work
together, all for the common good. The Chinese
will, in this Utopia, have struck down <emph>might</emph> from the
high places of the world, and inaugurated an era of <emph>the
kingly way</emph> throughout the earth. Their ancient doctrines
of benevolence and peace shall have succeeded in bringing
about cosmospolitanism.
</p>

<p>
There are, however, differences from the old order of
ideals. According to the Marxists, nationality, after it has
served its purpose as an instrument in the long class
struggle, may be set aside. Speculation of this sort is rare
among them, however, and it is difficult to envision their
final system. To Sun Yat-sen, however, there was the
definite ideal that the Chinese live on forever. This was
an obligation imposed upon him and his ideology by the
teleological element in the old ideology which required
that humanity be immortal in the flesh and that it be immortal
through clearly traceable lines of descent. The
individual was settled in a genealogical web, reaching
through time and space, which gave him a sense of certainty
that otherwise he might lack. This is inconsistent
<pb n='263'/><anchor id='Pg263'/>
with the Marxian ideal, where the family system, a relic
of brutal days, shall have vanished.
</p>

<p>
The physical immortality of the Chinese race was not
the only sort of immortality Sun Yat-sen wished China to
have. His stress on the peculiar virtues of the Chinese
intellectual culture has been noted. The Chinese literati
had sought an immortality of integrity and intellect, a
continuity of civilization without which mere physical
survival might seem brutish. In the teleology of Sun's
ideal society, there would no doubt be these two factors:
filial piety, emphasizing the survival of the flesh; and
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>, emphasizing the continuity of wisdom and honor.
Neither could aptly continue unless China remained Chinese,
unless the particular virtues of the Chinese were
brought once again to their full potency.<note place='foot'>The author is indebted to Mr. Jên Tai for the clarification of this
ideal of dual continuity&mdash;of the family system, preserving the flesh, and
the intellectual tradition, preserving the cultural heritages.</note>
</p>

<p>
The family system was to continue to the <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>
Utopia. So too were the three natural orders of men.
Sun Yat-sen never advocated that the false inequality of
the present world be thrown down for the purpose of putting
in its place a false equality which made no distinction
between the geniuses, the apostles, and the unthinking.
The Chinese world was to be Chinese to the end of time.
In this the narrowness of Sun Yat-sen's ideals is apparent;
it is, perhaps, a narrowness which limits his aspirations
and gives them strength.
</p>

<p>
The Chinese Utopia which was to be at the end of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign> was to be established in a world, moreover, which
might not have made a complete return to ideological control,
in which the state might still survive. The requirements
of an industrial economy certainly presupposes an
enormous length of time before the ideology and the society
shall have been completely adjusted to the peculiarities
<pb n='264'/><anchor id='Pg264'/>
of life in a world not only of working men but of
working machines. The state must continue until all men
are disciplined to labor: "When all these vagrants will
be done away with and when all will contribute to production,
then clothing will be abundant and food sufficient;
families will enjoy prosperity, and individuals will
be satisfied.
</p>

<p>
<q>Then the question of the <q>people's life</q> will be
solved.</q><note place='foot'>d'Elia translation, cited, p. 538.</note>
</p>

<p>
Thus Sun Yat-sen concluded his last lecture on <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min
shêng</foreign>.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='265'/><anchor id='Pg265'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Bibliography.</head>

<p>
The bibliography of works in Western languages dealing with
Sun Yat-sen is short. The author has made no attempt to gather
various fugitive pieces, such as newspaper clippings. He believes,
however, that the following bibliography of Western
works on Sun is the most nearly complete which has yet appeared,
and has listed, for the sake of completeness, two Russian
items as yet unavailable in the United States.
</p>

<p>
The first half of the bibliography presents these Western materials,
arranged according to their subject. Within each category,
the individual items are presented in chronological order;
this has been done in order to make clear the position of the
works in point of time of publication&mdash;a factor occasionally of
some importance in the study of these materials.
</p>

<p>
The second half of the bibliography lists further works which
have been referred to or cited. The first group of these consists
of a small collection of some of the more important Chinese editions
of, and Chinese and Japanese treatises upon, Sun Yat-sen's
writings. The second group represents various Western works on
China or on political science which have been of assistance to the
author in this study.
</p>

<p>
Chinese names have been left in their natural order, with the
patronymic first. Where Chinese names have been Westernized
and inverted, they have been returned to their original Chinese
order, but with a comma inserted to indicate the change.
</p>

<div>
<head>A. Major Sources on Sun Yat-sen Which are Available
in Western Languages.</head>

<div>
<head>I. Biographies of Sun Yat-sen.</head>

<quote rend='display'>
Ponce, Mariano, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen, El fundador de la Republica de China</hi>,
Manila, 1912.
</quote>

<p>
A popular biography. Valuable for the period just before 1912.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Cantlie, James and Sheridan-Jones, C., <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen and the Awakening
of China</hi>, New York, 1912.
</quote>

<p>
Also a popular work. Valuable for the description of Sun Yat-sen's
education.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Linebarger, Paul (and Sun Yat-sen), <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen and The Chinese Republic</hi>,
New York, 1925.
</quote>

<p>
The only biography authorized by Sun Yat-sen, who wrote parts
<pb n='266'/><anchor id='Pg266'/>
of it himself. A propaganda work, it presents the most complete
record of Sun's early life. Does not go beyond 1922.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Vilenskii (Sibiriakov), V., <hi rend='italic'>Sun' Iat-Sen&mdash;otets kitaiskoe revoliutsii</hi>,
Moscow, 1925. The same, Moscow, 1926.
</quote>

<p>
Not available.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Lee, Edward Bing-shuey, <hi rend='italic'>Dr. Sun Yat-sen, His Life and Achievements</hi>
(English and French), Nanking, n. d.
</quote>

<p>
A synopsis, by a spokesman for the Nationalist Party.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Wou, Saofong, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen, Sa Vie et Sa Doctrine</hi>, Paris, 1929.
</quote>

<p>
An excellent outline, largely from Chinese sources.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Restarick, Henry Bond, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen, Liberator of China</hi>, New Haven,
1931.
</quote>

<p>
Useful for a description of Sun Yat-sen's life in Honolulu, and
of some of his overseas connections.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<p>
&mdash;&mdash; (R.-Ch. Duval, translator), <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen, Liberator de la Chine</hi>,
Paris, 1932.
</p>

<p>
de Morant, George Soulie, <hi rend='italic'>Soun Iat-sènn</hi>, Paris, 1932.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
A romantic work based upon Chinese sources, and the Chinese
translation of Linebarger's work.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Linebarger, Paul; Linebarger, Paul M. A. (editor), <hi rend='italic'>The Gospel of Sun
Chung-shan</hi>, Paris, 1932.
</p>

<p>
Sharman, (Mrs.) Lyon, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen, His Life and Its Meaning, A Criticall
Biography</hi>, New York, 1934.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The most complete biography of Sun Yat-sen. Well documented
and prepared. Mrs. Sharman's work will remain authoritative for
many years to come. Its main fault is its somewhat hyper-sensitive
criticism of Sun Yat-sen's personality, with which the author never
comes in contact.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Linebarger, Paul, <hi rend='italic'>The Life of Sun Chung-san</hi>, Shanghai, 1932. Fragmentary
proofsheets. See note in Preface.
</p>

<p>
Reissig, Paul, <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat Sen und die Kuomintang</hi>, Berlin, n. d.
A Lutheran missionary tract.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

<div>
<head>II. Translations of the Sixteen Lectures on the <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>.</head>

<quote rend='display'>
Anonymous, <hi rend='italic'>The Three Principles</hi>, Shanghai 1927.
</quote>

<p>
Of no value.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Tsan Wan, <hi rend='italic'>Die Drei Nationalen Grundlehren, Die Grundlehren von dem
Volkstum</hi>, Berlin, 1927.
</quote>

<p>
A translation of the lectures on Nationalism; excellent as far as
it goes.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
d'Elia, Paschal M., S. J. (translator and editor); <hi rend='italic'>Le Triple Demisme de
Suen Wen</hi>, Shanghai, 1929.
</quote>

<p>
The only annotated translation. The style is simple and direct,
and the notes accurate, for the most part, and informative. The
<pb n='267'/><anchor id='Pg267'/>
uninitiated reader must make allowances for Father d'Elia's religious
viewpoints. This is probably the most useful translation.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Price, Frank W. (translator), Chen, L. T. (editor); <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I,
The Three Principles of the People</hi>, Shanghai, 1930.
</quote>

<p>
The translation most widely known and quoted.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
d'Elia, Paschal M., S. J., <hi rend='italic'>The Triple Demism of Sun Yat-sen</hi>, Wuchang,
1931.
</quote>

<p>
A translation of the French version.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Hsü, Leonard Shihlien; <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen, His Political and Social Ideals</hi>,
Los Angeles, 1933.
</quote>

<p>
The most complete selection of the documents of Sun Yat-senism
available in English. Dr. Hsü has assembled his materials remarkably
well. His chapter <q>The Basic Literature of Sunyatsenism</q> is
the best of its kind in English.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>III. Other Translations of the Chinese Works of Sun Yat-sen.</head>

<quote rend='display'>
Anonymous; <hi rend='italic'>Zapiski kitaiskogo revoliutsionera</hi>, Moscow, 1926.
</quote>

<p>
Not available.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
&mdash;&mdash; <hi rend='italic'>Memoirs of a Chinese Revolutionary</hi>, Philadelphia, n. d.
</quote>

<p>
Not documented and apparently unreliable. English version of
the above.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Wittfogel, Karl; <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat Sen, Aufzeichnungen eines chinesischen Revolutionärs</hi>,
Vienna and Berlin, n. d. (ca. 1927).
</quote>

<p>
The most complete Marxist critique, containing also an excellent
short biography.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Tsan Wan; <hi rend='italic'>30 Jahre Chinesische Revolution</hi>, Berlin, 1927.
</quote>

<p>
An excellent translation of one of the short autobiographies of
Sun Yat-sen.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Wei Yung (translator); <hi rend='italic'>The Cult of Dr. Sun, Sun Wên Hsüeh Shê</hi>,
Shanghai, 1931.
</quote>

<p>
Also referred to as <hi rend='italic'>The Outline of Psychological Reconstruction</hi>.
It comprises a series of popular essays discussing the problems involved
in modernization of the Chinese outlook, and presenting
Sun Yat-sen's theory of knowledge versus action.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>IV. Works in English by Sun Yat-sen.</head>

<quote rend='display'>
Sun Yat-sen; <hi rend='italic'>Kidnapped in London</hi>, Bristol, 1897.
</quote>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's first book in English. Expresses his Christian, modernist,
anti-Manchu attitude of the time.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
&mdash;&mdash; <hi rend='italic'>How China was Made a Republic</hi>, Shanghai, 1919.
</quote>

<p>
A short autobiography of Sun Yat-sen; see note in Preface.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
&mdash;&mdash; <hi rend='italic'>The International Development of China</hi>, New York and London,
1929.
</quote>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen's bold project for the industrialization of China.
<pb n='268'/><anchor id='Pg268'/>
First proposed in 1919, the work calls for a coördinated effort of
world capitalism and Chinese nationalism for the modernization of
China. Also called the <hi rend='italic'>Outline of Material Reconstruction</hi>.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>V. Commentaries on the Principles of Sun Yat-sen.</head>

<quote rend='display'>
Li Ti tsun; <hi rend='italic'>The Politico-Economic Theories of Sun Yat-sen</hi>.
</quote>

<p>
This work has not been published, but portions of it appeared in
the <hi rend='italic'>Chinese Students' Monthly</hi>, XXIV, New York, 1928-1929, as
follows: <q>The Life of Sun Yat-sen,</q> no. 1, p. 14, November, 1928;
<q>The Theoretical System of Dr. Sun Yat-sen,</q> no. 2, p. 92, December
1928, and no. 3, p. 130, January 1929; and <q>The Sunyatsenian
Principle of Livelihood,</q> no. 5, p. 219, March 1929. It is most
regrettable that the whole work could not be published as a unit,
for Li's work is extensive in scope and uses the major Chinese and
foreign sources quite skilfully.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Tai Chi-tao (Richard Wilhelm, translator); <hi rend='italic'>Die Geistigen Grundlagen
des Sunyatsenismus</hi>, Berlin, 1931.
</quote>

<p>
An informative commentary on the ethical system of Sun Yat-sen.
Tai Chi-tao is an eminent Party leader.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Antonov, K.: <hi rend='italic'>Sun'iatsenizm i kitaiskaia revoliutsiia</hi>, Moscow, 1931.
</quote>

<p>
Not available to the author.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
William, Maurice; <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yat-sen Vs. Communism</hi>, Baltimore, 1932.
</quote>

<p>
A presentation, by the author of <hi rend='italic'>The Social Interpretation of History</hi>,
of the influence which that work had on Sun; useful only in
this connection.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Linebarger, Paul; Linebarger, Paul M. A. (editor); <hi rend='italic'>Conversations With
Sun Yat-sen</hi>, 1919-1922.
</quote>

<p>
For comment on this and the following manuscript, see Preface.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Linebarger, Paul; <hi rend='italic'>A Commentary on the San Min Chu I</hi>. Four volumes,
unpublished, 1933.
</p>

<p>
Tsui, Shu-Chin, <hi rend='italic'>The Influence of the Canton-Moscow Entente upon Sun
Yat-sen's political Philosophy</hi>, in <hi rend='italic'>The Chinese Social and Political
Science Review</hi>, XVIII, 1, 2, 3, Peiping, 1934.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
A dissertation presented to Harvard University. Dr. Tsui covers
the ground very thoroughly; his conclusions challenge the general
belief that the Communists influenced Sun Yat-sen's philosophy.
Ranks with the works of Tai Chi-tao, Hsü Shih-lien, and Father
d'Elia as an aid to the understanding of the Three Principles.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Jair Hung: <hi rend='italic'>Les Idées Économiques de Sun Yat Sen</hi>, Toulouse, 1934.
</quote>

<p>
A doctoral thesis presented to the University of Toulouse, treating,
chiefly, the programmatic parts of the principle of <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Tsiang Kuen; <hi rend='italic'>Les origines économiques et politiques du socialisme de
Sun Yat Sen</hi>, Paris, 1933.
</quote>

<pb n='269'/><anchor id='Pg269'/>

<p>
A doctoral thesis presented to the University of Paris, which
deals with the institutional and historical background of min sheng.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Li Chao-wei; <hi rend='italic'>La souveraineté nationale d'après la doctrine politique de
Sun-Yet-Sin</hi>, Dijon, 1934.
</quote>

<p>
A doctoral thesis presented to the University of Dijon, concerning
the four popular powers of election, recall, initiative, and
referendum.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<head>B. Chinese Sources and Further Western Works Used
as Auxiliary Sources.</head>

<div>
<head>I. Chinese and Japanese Works by or Concerning Sun Yat-sen.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Anonymous; <hi rend='italic'>Tsung-li Fêng An Shih Lu (A True Record of the Obsequies
of the Leader)</hi>, Nanking, n. d.
</p>

<p>
Bai-ko-nan (Mei Sung-nan); <hi rend='italic'>San-min-shu-gi To Kai-kyu To-so (The
San Min Chu I and the Struggle between Capitalism and Labor)</hi>,
Tokyo, 1929.
</p>

<p>
Chung Kung-jên; <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I Li Lun Ti Lien Chiu (A Study of the
Theory of the San Min Chu I)</hi>, Shanghai, 1931.
</p>

<p>
Huang Huan-wên; <hi rend='italic'>Sun Wên Chu I Chen Ch'üan (The Real Interpretation
of the Principles of Sun Wên)</hi>, Nanking, 1933.
</p>

<p>
Lin Pai-k'ê (Linebarger, Paul M. W.), Hsü Chih-jên (translator); <hi rend='italic'>Sun
I-hsien Chüan Chi (The Life of Sun Yat-sen)</hi>, 4th ed., Shanghai,
1927.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The Chinese translator has appended an excellent chronology of
Sun's life.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Sun Fu-hao; <hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I Piao Chieh (An Elementary Explanation of
the Sun Min Chu I)</hi>, Shanghai, 1933.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen, Hu Han-min, ed.; <hi rend='italic'>Tsung-li Ch'üan Chi (The Complete
Works of the Leader)</hi>, 4 vol. in 1; 2nd ed., Shanghai, 1930.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The best collection, but by no means complete.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen; <hi rend='italic'>Sun Chung-shan Yen Chiang Chi (A Collection of the
Lectures of Sun Chung-shan)</hi>, 3rd ed., Shanghai, 1927.
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen; <hi rend='italic'>Tsung-li Yü Mo (The Posthumous Papers of the Leader)</hi>,
Nanking, n. d.
</p>

<p>
Têng Hsi; <hi rend='italic'>Chung Shan Jên Shêng Shih Hsia Tan Yüan, (An Inquiry
into the Origin of Chung Shan's Philosophy of Life)</hi>, Shanghai,
1933.
</p>

<p>
Tsao Kê-jen; <hi rend='italic'>Sun Chung Shan Hsien-shêng Ching Chi Hsüeh Shê (The
Economic Theory of Mr. Sun Chung-shan)</hi>, Nanking, 1935.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

<div>
<head>II. Works on China or the Revolution.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Amann, Gustav; <hi rend='italic'>Sun Yatsens Vermächtnis</hi>, Berlin, 1928.
</p>

<p>
Bland, J. O. and Backhouse, E.; <hi rend='italic'>China Under the Empress Dowager</hi>,
Philadelphia, 1910.
</p>

<pb n='270'/><anchor id='Pg270'/>

<p>
Beresford, Lord Charles; <hi rend='italic'>The Break-up of China</hi>, London, 1899.
</p>

<p>
Bonnard, Abel; <hi rend='italic'>En Chine (1920-1921)</hi>, Paris, 1924.
</p>

<p>
Burgess, J. S.; <hi rend='italic'>The Guilds of Peking</hi>, New York, 1928.
</p>

<p>
Buxton, L. H. Dudley; <hi rend='italic'>China, The Land and the People</hi>, Oxford, 1929.
</p>

<p>
Chen Tsung-hsi, Wang An-tsiang, and Wang I-ting; <hi rend='italic'>General Chiang
Kai-shek: The Builder of New China</hi>, Shanghai, 1929.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Chinese Social and Political Science Review, The</hi>, Peking (Peiping),
1916-. The foremost journal of its kind in the Far East.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>China Today</hi>, New York, 1934-. Communist Monthly.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>China Weekly Review, The</hi>, Shanghai, 1917-.
</p>

<p>
The leading English-language weekly in China, Liberal in outlook.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>China Year Book, The</hi>, Shanghai, 1919-?
</p>

</quote>

<p>
A necessary reference work for government personnel, trade statistics,
and chronology. Perhaps inferior to the corresponding volumes
in other countries.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Close, Upton, <hi rend='italic'>pseud.</hi> (Hall, Josef Washington); <hi rend='italic'>Challenge: Behind
the Face of Japan</hi>, New York, 1934.
</p>

<p>
&mdash;&mdash;; <hi rend='italic'>Eminent Asians</hi>, New York, 1929.
</p>

<p>
Coker, Francis; <hi rend='italic'>Recent Political Thought</hi>, New York, 1934.
</p>

<p>
Creel, H. G.; Sinism, <hi rend='italic'>A Study of the Evolution of the Chinese World-view</hi>,
Chicago, 1929.
</p>

<p>
Cressey, George Babcock; <hi rend='italic'>China's Geographic Foundations</hi>, New York,
1934.
</p>

<p>
de Groot, J. J. M.; <hi rend='italic'>Religion in China</hi>, New York and London, 1912.
</p>

<p>
Djang, Chu (Chang Tso); <hi rend='italic'>The Chinese Suzerainty</hi>, Johns Hopkins
University doctoral dissertation, 1935.
</p>

<p>
Douglas, Sir Robert K.; <hi rend='italic'>Europe and the Far East 1506-1912</hi>, New York,
1913.
</p>

<p>
Ellis, Henry; <hi rend='italic'>Journal of the Proceedings of the Late Embassy to China...</hi>,
Philadelphia, 1818.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences</hi>, New York, 1930-.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Articles on <q>Kuomintang</q> and <q>Sun Yat-sen.</q>
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Erdberg, Oskar; <hi rend='italic'>Tales of Modern China</hi>, Moscow, 1932.
</p>

<p>
Erkes, Eduard; <hi rend='italic'>Chinesische Literatur</hi>, Breslau, 1922.
</p>

<p>
Foreign Office of Japan, The (?); <hi rend='italic'>The Present Condition of China</hi>,
Tokyo (?), 1932.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
No author nor place of publication is given in this work, which
presents a description of those features of Chinese political and economic
life that might be construed as excusing Japanese intervention.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Fundamental Laws of the Chinese Soviet Republic</hi>, The, New York, 1934.
</p>

<p>
Goodnow, Frank Johnson; <hi rend='italic'>China: An Analysis</hi>, Baltimore, 1926.
</p>

<p>
Granet, Marcel; <hi rend='italic'>Chinese Civilization</hi>, New York, 1930.
</p>

<pb n='271'/><anchor id='Pg271'/>

<p>
Harvey, E. D.; <hi rend='italic'>The Mind of China</hi>, New Haven, 1933.
</p>

<p>
Holcombe, Arthur N.; <hi rend='italic'>The Chinese Revolution</hi>, Cambridge (Massachusetts),
1930.
</p>

<p>
&mdash;&mdash;; <hi rend='italic'>The Spirit of the Chinese Revolution</hi>, New York, 1930.
</p>

<p>
Hsia Ching-lin; Chow, James L. E.; and Chang, Yukon (translators);
<hi rend='italic'>The Civil Code of The Republic of China</hi>, Shanghai, 1930.
</p>

<p>
Hsieh, Pao Chao; <hi rend='italic'>The Government of China (1644-1911)</hi>, Baltimore,
1925.
</p>

<p>
Hsü, Leonard Shih-lien; <hi rend='italic'>The Political Philosophy of Confucianism</hi>, New
York, 1932.
</p>

<p>
Hsü, Pao-chien; <hi rend='italic'>Ethical Realism in Neo-Confucian Thought</hi>, Dissertation,
Columbia University, n. d.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Suggests the position of Sun Yat-sen in the history of Chinese
philosophy.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Hu Shih; and Lin Yu-tang; <hi rend='italic'>China's Own Critics</hi>, Peiping, 1931.
</p>

<p>
Isaacs, Harold (editor); <hi rend='italic'>Five Years of Kuomintang Reaction</hi>, Shanghai,
1931.
</p>

<p>
Johnston, Reginald; <hi rend='italic'>Twilight in the Forbidden City</hi>, London, 1934.
</p>

<p>
Koo, V. K. Wellington; <hi rend='italic'>Memoranda Presented to the Lytton Commission</hi>,
New York, n. d.
</p>

<p>
Kotenev, Anatol M.; <hi rend='italic'>New Lamps for Old</hi>, Shanghai, 1931.
</p>

<p>
Kulp, D. H.; <hi rend='italic'>Family Life in South China: The Sociology of Familism</hi>,
New York, 1925.
</p>

<p>
Latourette, Kenneth; <hi rend='italic'>The Chinese: Their History and Culture</hi>, New
York, 1934.
</p>

<p>
Lea, Homer; <hi rend='italic'>The Valor of Ignorance</hi>, New York, 1909.
</p>

<p>
Liang Ch'i-ch'ao; <hi rend='italic'>History of Chinese Political Thought</hi>, New York and
London, 1930.
</p>

<p>
Li Chi; <hi rend='italic'>The Formation of the Chinese People</hi>, Cambridge (Massachusetts),
1928.
</p>

<p>
Lin Yutang; <hi rend='italic'>My Country and My People</hi>, New York, 1936.
</p>

<p>
Linebarger, Paul Myron Wentworth; <hi rend='italic'>Deutschlands Gegenwärtige Gelegenheiten
in China</hi>, Brussels, 1936.
</p>

<p>
Lou Kan-jou; <hi rend='italic'>Histoire Sociale de l'Epoque Tcheou</hi>, Paris, 1935.
</p>

<p>
MacNair, Harley Farnsworth; <hi rend='italic'>China in Revolution</hi>, Chicago, 1931.
</p>

<p>
&mdash;&mdash;; <hi rend='italic'>Modern Chinese History&mdash;Selected Readings</hi>, Shanghai, 1923.
</p>

<p>
Mänchen-Helfen, Otto; <hi rend='italic'>China</hi>, Dresden, 1931.
</p>

<p>
Maybon, Albert; <hi rend='italic'>La Politique Chinoise</hi>, Paris, 1908.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen presented a copy of this book to Judge Linebarger,
and enthusiastically recommended it.
</p>

<pb n='272'/><anchor id='Pg272'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Maybon, Albert; <hi rend='italic'>La Republique Chinoise</hi>, Paris, 1914.
</p>

<p>
Mayers, William Frederick; <hi rend='italic'>The Chinese Government, A Manual of
Chinese Titles, Categorically Explained and Arranged, with an
Appendix</hi>, Shanghai, 1897.
</p>

<p>
McGovern, William Montgomery; <hi rend='italic'>Modern Japan, Its Political, Military,
and Industrial Organization</hi>, London, 1920.
</p>

<p>
Myron, Paul, pseud. (Linebarger, Paul M. W.); <hi rend='italic'>Our Chinese Chances
Through Europe's War</hi>, Chicago, 1915.
</p>

<p>
Meadows, Thomas Taylor; <hi rend='italic'>The Chinese and Their Rebellions</hi>, London,
1856.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
One of the permanently outstanding books on China; dealing
primarily with the T'ai P'ing rebellion, it presents an extraordinarily
keen analysis of the politics of the old Chinese social system.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
Ogden, C. K. and Richards, I. A.; <hi rend='italic'>The Meaning of Meaning</hi>, New York
and London, 1927.
</quote>

<p>
It is largely upon this work that the present author has sought to
base his technique of ideological analysis.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Peffer, Nathaniel; <hi rend='italic'>The Collapse of a Civilization</hi>, New York, 1930.
</p>

<p>
Price, Ernest Batson; <hi rend='italic'>The Russo-Japanese Treaties of 1907-1916 Concerning
Manchuria and Mongolia</hi>, Baltimore, 1933.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Pages 1-13 present stimulating suggestions as to the nature of
<q>China.</q>
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Reichwein, Adolf; <hi rend='italic'>China and Europe: Intellectual and Artistic Contacts
in the Eighteenth Century</hi>, New York, 1925.
</p>

<p>
Roffe, Jean; <hi rend='italic'>La Chine Nationaliste 1912-1930</hi>, Paris, 1931.
</p>

<p>
Roy, Manabendra Nath; <hi rend='italic'>Revolution und Konterrevolution in China</hi>,
Berlin, 1930.
</p>

<p>
Ruffé, R. d'Auxion de; <hi rend='italic'>Is China Mad?</hi> Shanghai, 1928.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The author, violently hostile to Sun Yat-sen, presents some details
of Sun's life not published elsewhere.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Smith, Arthur; <hi rend='italic'>Village Life in China</hi>, New York, 1899.
</p>

<p>
Sheean, Vincent; <hi rend='italic'>Personal History</hi>, New York, 1935.
</p>

<p>
Shryock, John Knight; <hi rend='italic'>The Origin and Development of the State Cult
of Confucius</hi>, New York, 1932.
</p>

<p>
Starr, Frederick; <hi rend='italic'>Confucianism</hi>, New York, 1930.
</p>

<p>
Stoddard, Lothrop; <hi rend='italic'>The Rising Tide of Color Against White World
Supremacy</hi>, New York, 1930.
</p>

<p>
T'ang Leang-li; <hi rend='italic'>The Inner History of the Chinese Revolution</hi>, New York,
1930.
</p>

<p>
&mdash;&mdash;; <hi rend='italic'>Wang ching-wei</hi>, Peiping, 1931.
</p>

<p>
Tawney, Richard Henry; <hi rend='italic'>Land and Labour in China</hi>, London, 1932.
</p>

<p>
Thomas, Elbert Duncan; <hi rend='italic'>Chinese Political Thought</hi>, New York, 1927.
</p>

<p>
Treat, Payson J.; <hi rend='italic'>The Far East</hi>, New York and London, 1928.
</p>

<pb n='273'/><anchor id='Pg273'/>

<p>
Trotsky, Leon; <hi rend='italic'>Problems of the Chinese Revolution</hi>, New York, 1932.
</p>

<p>
Tyau Min-ch'ien T. Z.; <hi rend='italic'>Two Years of Nationalist China</hi>, Shanghai, 1930.
</p>

<p>
van Dorn, Harold Archer; <hi rend='italic'>Twenty Years of The Chinese Republic</hi>,
New York, 1932.
</p>

<p>
Vinacke, Harold Monk; <hi rend='italic'>Modern Constitutional Development in China</hi>,
Princeton, 1920.
</p>

<p>
Wang Ch'ing-wei et al.; <hi rend='italic'>The Chinese National Revolution</hi>, Peiping,
1930.
</p>

<p>
Weale, E. L. Putnam, <hi rend='italic'>pseud.</hi> (Simpson, Bertram Lennox); <hi rend='italic'>The Vanished
Empire</hi>, London, 1926.
</p>

<p>
Weber, Max; <hi rend='italic'>Gesammelte Aufsätze zur Religionssoziologie</hi>, Tübingen,
1922.
</p>

<p>
Wieger, Leon, S. J.; <hi rend='italic'>Chine Moderne</hi>, 10 volumes, Hsien-hsien, 1921-32.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
An enormous scrapbook of translations from the Chinese illustrating
political and religious trends. Catholic point of view.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
&mdash;&mdash;; <hi rend='italic'>Textes Historiques: Histoire Politique de la Chine</hi>, Hsien-hsien,
1929.
</p>

<p>
&mdash;&mdash; and Davrout, L., S. J.; <hi rend='italic'>Chinese Characters</hi>, Hsien-hsien, 1927.
</p>

<p>
Wilhelm, Richard (Danton, G. H. and Danton, A. P., translators);
<hi rend='italic'>Confucius and Confucianism</hi>, New York, 1931.
</p>

<p>
&mdash;&mdash;; <hi rend='italic'>Geschichte der chinesischen Philosophie</hi>, Breslau, 1929.
</p>

<p>
&mdash;&mdash;; <hi rend='italic'>Ostasien, Werden und Wandel des Chinesischen Kulturkreises</hi>,
Potsdam and Zürich, 1928.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Perhaps the best of all works introductory to Chinese civilization.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
Williams, S. Wells; <hi rend='italic'>The Middle Kingdom</hi>, New York, 1895.
</p>

<p>
&mdash;&mdash;; <hi rend='italic'>A Syllabic Dictionary of the Chinese Language</hi>, Tungchou, 1909.
</p>

<p>
Wu Ch'ao-ch'u, <hi rend='italic'>The Nationalist Program for China</hi>, New Haven, 1930.
</p>

<p>
Wu Kuo-cheng; <hi rend='italic'>Ancient Chinese Political Theories</hi>, Shanghai, 1928.
</p>

<p>
Ziah, C. F.; <hi rend='italic'>Philosophie Politique de la Chine Ancienne (700-221 AV.
J.-C.)</hi>, Paris, 1934.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='274'/><anchor id='Pg274'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Chinese-English Glossary.</head>

<p>
The author has not sought to prepare a lexicon of
modern Chinese political terms. He presents, however, a
list of those Chinese words which have frequently been
left untranslated in the text, together with the ideographs
by which they are written in China, and brief definitions.
Variant meanings, however significant, have been omitted.
Peculiar definitions, to be found only in the present work,
have been enclosed in brackets. To locate the phrases, and
discussions of them, consult the index.
</p>

<list type='simple'>
<item>正  <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chêng</foreign>; right; rectified</item>
<item>主 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chu</foreign>; used as a compound with <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>i</foreign>, below, to make
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chu-i</foreign>: principle, -ism</item>
<item>權 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ch'üan</foreign>; power</item>
<item>會 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign>; society; guild</item>
<item>縣 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>; district (a political subdivision)</item>
<item>義 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>i</foreign>; propriety</item>
<item>仁 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>; humanity; fellow-feeling; benevolence, etc.
[consciousness of social orientation]</item>
<item>禮 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign>; rites; ceremonies [ideological conformity]</item>
<item>民 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min</foreign>; people; <foreign lang='de' rend='italic'>Volk</foreign></item>
<item>名 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ming</foreign>; name [terminology, or, a part of ideology]</item>
<item>能 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>nêng</foreign>; capacity</item>
<item>霸 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>pa</foreign>; violence; violent; tyrant; tyrannous</item>
<item>三 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>san</foreign>; three</item>
<item>生 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>shêng</foreign>;  life; regeneration; livelihood</item>
<item>大 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ta</foreign>; great</item>
<item>道 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>tao</foreign>; path; way; principle</item>
<item>德 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>têh</foreign>; virtue</item>
<item>族 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>tsu</foreign>; unity; kinship</item>
<item>同 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>t'ung</foreign>; harmony; concord</item>
<item>王 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>wang</foreign>; king; kingly</item>
<item>樂 <foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>yüeh</foreign>; rhythm</item>
</list>

</div>

<pb n='275'/><anchor id='Pg275'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Index.</head>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Proper Names and Special Terms</hi>
</p>

<p>
America (<hi rend='italic'>see also</hi> <ref target='Index-United-States'>United States</ref>), <ref target='Pg062'>62</ref>, <ref target='Pg220'>220</ref>
</p>

<p>
American Indians, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>
</p>

<p>
Anglo-Saxons, <ref target='Pg062'>62</ref>
</p>

<p>
Annam, <ref target='Pg127'>127</ref>
</p>

<p>
Austria, <ref target='Pg062'>62</ref>
</p>

<p>
Beresford, Lord Charles, <ref target='Pg187'>187</ref>
</p>

<p>
Bismarck, <ref target='Pg254'>254</ref> ff.
</p>

<p>
Bolsheviks (<hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='Index-Russians'>Russians</ref>, <ref target='Index-Marxian'>Marxian philosophy</ref>)
</p>

<p>
Borodin, <ref target='Pg005'>5</ref>, <ref target='Pg007'>7</ref>, <ref target='Pg161'>161</ref>
</p>

<p>
Boxer Rebellion, <ref target='Pg078'>78</ref>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-British'/>
British Empire, <ref target='Pg071'>71</ref>, <ref target='Pg199'>199</ref>
</p>

<p>
Burgess, J. S., <ref target='Pg041'>41.</ref>.
</p>

<p>
Cantlie, Sir James, <ref target='Pg084'>84</ref>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-Canton'/>
Canton, <ref target='Pg007'>7</ref>, <ref target='Pg066'>66</ref>, <ref target='Pg126'>126</ref>, <ref target='Pg233'>233</ref>
</p>

<p>
Catherine I of Russia, <ref target='Pg243'>243</ref>
</p>

<p>
Catholic Church, <ref target='Pg054'>54</ref>n., <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>
</p>

<p>
Chang Tso (Djang Chu), <ref target='Pg186'>186</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Ch'en Ch'iung-ming, <ref target='Pg006'>6</ref>
</p>

<p>
Chen, Eugene, <ref target='Pg159'>159</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Chêng, state of, <ref target='Pg027'>27</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chêng ming</foreign>, <ref target='Pg031'>31</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg083'>83</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg104'>104</ref>, <ref target='Pg114'>114</ref>, <ref target='Pg210'>210</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ch'i</foreign>, <ref target='Pg110'>110</ref>
</p>

<p>
Chiang Chieh-shih (Chiang Kai-shek), <ref target='Pg102'>102</ref>n., <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>n., <ref target='Pg163'>163</ref>n., <ref target='Pg206'>206</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Chien Kuo Fang Lo</hi> (see <ref target='Index-Program-Reconstruction'><hi rend='italic'>The Program of National Reconstruction</hi></ref>)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Chien Kuo Ta Kang</hi> (see <ref target='Index-Outline-Reconstruction'><hi rend='italic'>see The Outline of National Reconstruction</hi></ref>)
</p>

<p>
Ch'ien Lung, the Emperor, <ref target='Pg168'>168</ref>
</p>

<p>
Ch'in dynasty, <ref target='Pg047'>47</ref>
</p>

<p>
Ch'in Shih Huang Ti, the, <ref target='Pg026'>26</ref>n., <ref target='Pg037'>37</ref>
</p>

<p>
Chinese Eastern Railway, the, <ref target='Pg201'>201</ref>
</p>

<p>
Ch'ing dynasty (<hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='Index-Manchu'>Manchu dynasty</ref>)
</p>

<p>
Chou dynasty, <ref target='Pg025'>25</ref>, <ref target='Pg028'>28</ref>
</p>

<p>
Christianity, <ref target='Pg049'>49</ref>, <ref target='Pg067'>67</ref>, <ref target='Pg133'>133</ref>n., <ref target='Pg155'>155</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ch'üan</foreign>, <ref target='Pg107'>107</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg141'>141</ref>, <ref target='Pg218'>218</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>chun ch'üan</foreign>, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Chung Hua, The Republic of, <ref target='Pg190'>190</ref>
</p>

<p>
Cohen, Morris, <ref target='Pg008'>8</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Coker, Francis W., <ref target='Pg147'>147</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
Communists, <ref target='Pg010'>10</ref>, <ref target='Pg064'>64</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg066'>66</ref>, <ref target='Pg106'>106</ref>, <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>, <ref target='Pg160'>160</ref>, <ref target='Pg161'>161</ref>, <ref target='Pg163'>163</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg189'>189</ref>, <ref target='Pg205'>205</ref>, <ref target='Pg246'>246</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
Confucianism, <ref target='Pg023'>23</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg060'>60</ref>, <ref target='Pg066'>66</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg082'>82</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg090'>90</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg106'>106</ref>, <ref target='Pg109'>109</ref>, <ref target='Pg113'>113</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg210'>210</ref>
</p>

<p>
Confucius (K'ung Ch'iu), <ref target='Pg025'>25</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg060'>60</ref>, <ref target='Pg076'>76</ref>, <ref target='Pg097'>97</ref>, <ref target='Pg105'>105</ref>, <ref target='Pg261'>261</ref>
</p>

<p>
Creel, H. G., <ref target='Pg023'>23</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Cressey, George B., <ref target='Pg127'>127</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Davrout, L., <ref target='Pg032'>32</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
d'Elia, Paschal M., <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Donbas region, <ref target='Pg246'>246</ref>
</p>

<p>
Douglas, Sir Robert K., <ref target='Pg243'>243</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Dutch, the, <ref target='Pg044'>44</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Empress Dowager, Tzŭ Hsi, the, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-England'/>
England, <ref target='Pg062'>62</ref>, <ref target='Pg150'>150</ref>n., <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>
</p>

<p>
Erdberg, Oskar, <ref target='Pg161'>161</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Fascism, <ref target='Pg054'>54</ref>, <ref target='Pg146'>146</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg244'>244</ref>
</p>

<p>
Ford, Henry, <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Four Books, The</hi>, <ref target='Pg075'>75</ref>
</p>

<p>
France, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>
</p>

<p>
Gandhi, M. K., <ref target='Pg156'>156</ref>n., <ref target='Pg180'>180</ref>
</p>

<p>
Genro, the, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>
</p>

<p>
George III of England, <ref target='Pg243'>243</ref>
</p>

<p>
George, Henry, <ref target='Pg072'>72</ref>, <ref target='Pg136'>136</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg144'>144</ref>, <ref target='Pg256'>256</ref>
</p>

<p>
Germany, <ref target='Pg062'>62</ref>, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>, <ref target='Pg196'>196</ref>, <ref target='Pg254'>254</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
Goodnow, Frank J., <ref target='Pg097'>97</ref>
</p>

<p>
Granet, Marcel, <ref target='Pg023'>23</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Great Britain (<hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='Index-British'>British Empire</ref>, <ref target='Index-England'>England</ref>)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Great Learning, The</hi>, <ref target='Pg074'>74</ref>
</p>

<p>
Greeks, the, <ref target='Pg133'>133</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hai Ching Kung, the, <ref target='Pg044'>44</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Hamilton, Alexander, <ref target='Pg077'>77</ref>
</p>

<p>
Han Fei-tzŭ, <ref target='Pg029'>29</ref>, <ref target='Pg093'>93</ref>
</p>

<pb n='276'/><anchor id='Pg276'/>

<p>
Harvey, E. D., <ref target='Pg154'>154</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Hawaii, <ref target='Pg061'>61</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Hitler, Adolf, <ref target='Pg056'>56</ref>
</p>

<p>
Holcombe, Arthur N., <ref target='Pg011'>11</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Hongkong, <ref target='Pg051'>51</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Honolulu, <ref target='Pg126'>126</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hou chih hou chou</foreign>, the, <ref target='Pg105'>105</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hsieh, Pao-chao, <ref target='Pg045'>45</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien</foreign>, <ref target='Pg045'>45</ref>, <ref target='Pg211'>211</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg230'>230</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hsien chih hsien chou</foreign>, the, <ref target='Pg104'>104</ref>, <ref target='Pg106'>106</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hsin dynasty, <ref target='Pg058'>58</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hsü, Leonard Shih-lien, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Hu Han-min, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>n., <ref target='Pg186'>186</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hui</foreign>, <ref target='Pg038'>38</ref>, <ref target='Pg041'>41</ref>, <ref target='Pg095'>95</ref>, <ref target='Pg165'>165</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hulutao port, <ref target='Pg260'>260</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>hung fang</foreign>, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Hung Hsiu-ch'üan, <ref target='Pg058'>58</ref>
</p>

<p>
Hung Jair, <ref target='Pg236'>236</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<q>ideology,</q> <ref target='Pg018'>18</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
India, <ref target='Pg090'>90</ref>, <ref target='Pg181'>181</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>International Development of China, The</hi>, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>
</p>

<p>
Isaacs, Harold, <ref target='Pg161'>161</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Japan, <ref target='Pg028'>28</ref>, <ref target='Pg040'>40</ref>, <ref target='Pg047'>47</ref>, <ref target='Pg048'>48</ref>, <ref target='Pg051'>51</ref>, <ref target='Pg059'>59</ref>, <ref target='Pg063'>63</ref>, <ref target='Pg090'>90</ref>, <ref target='Pg170'>170</ref>, <ref target='Pg184'>184</ref>, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>, <ref target='Pg199'>199</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg240'>240</ref>, <ref target='Pg260'>260</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>jên</foreign>, <ref target='Pg014'>14</ref>, <ref target='Pg030'>30</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg072'>72</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg141'>141</ref>, <ref target='Pg142'>142</ref>, <ref target='Pg144'>144</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg154'>154</ref>, <ref target='Pg263'>263</ref>
</p>

<p>
Jên T'ai, <ref target='Pg031'>31</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Jews, the, <ref target='Pg168'>168</ref>
</p>

<p>
Joffe, Adolf, <ref target='Pg064'>64</ref>
</p>

<p>
Johnston, Sir Reginald, <ref target='Pg119'>119</ref>
</p>

<p>
Kailan Mining Administration, The, <ref target='Pg179'>179</ref>
</p>

<p>
K'ang Hsi, the Emperor, <ref target='Pg168'>168</ref>
</p>

<p>
<q>Kang Têh</q> (<hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='Index-Pu-Yi'>P'u Yi</ref>)
</p>

<p>
Koo, V. K. Wellington, <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Korea (Chosen), <ref target='Pg048'>48</ref>, <ref target='Pg059'>59</ref>, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>, <ref target='Pg127'>127</ref>, <ref target='Pg200'>200</ref>
</p>

<p>
Kulp, D. H., <ref target='Pg038'>38</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Ku Hung-ming, <ref target='Pg077'>77</ref>
</p>

<p>
K'ung family, <ref target='Pg090'>90</ref>
</p>

<p>
Kung, H. H., <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Kuo Hsing-hua, <ref target='Pg044'>44</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Kuomintang, the, <ref target='Pg104'>104</ref>, <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg205'>205</ref>
</p>

<p>
Kwangtung Province (<hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='Index-Canton'>Canton</ref>)
</p>

<p>
Kuzbas region, <ref target='Pg246'>246</ref>
</p>

<p>
Lao Tzŭ, <ref target='Pg025'>25</ref>
</p>

<p>
Latins, the, <ref target='Pg062'>62</ref>
</p>

<p>
Latourette, Kenneth Scott, <ref target='Pg091'>91</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Lea, Homer, <ref target='Pg195'>195</ref>
</p>

<p>
Lee, Frank C., <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Legge translations, the, <ref target='Pg023'>23</ref>n., <ref target='Pg075'>75</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Lenin, V. I., <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>, <ref target='Pg230'>230</ref>n., <ref target='Pg247'>247</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>li</foreign>, <ref target='Pg031'>31</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg104'>104</ref>, <ref target='Pg115'>115</ref>
</p>

<p>
Li Chao-wei, <ref target='Pg219'>219</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Li Chi, <ref target='Pg086'>86</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Li Ti-tsun, <ref target='Pg137'>137</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Liang Ch'i-ch'ao, <ref target='Pg030'>30</ref>, <ref target='Pg031'>31</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Lin Shen, President, <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Lincoln, Abraham, <ref target='Pg262'>262</ref>
</p>

<p>
Linebarger, Paul Myron Wentworth, <ref target='Pg008'>8</ref>n., <ref target='Pg084'>84</ref>
</p>

<p>
Lotus society, the, <ref target='Pg041'>41</ref>
</p>

<p>
Lovejoy, Arthur O., <ref target='Pg018'>18</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Lynn, Jermyn Chi-hung, <ref target='Pg221'>221</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Macao, <ref target='Pg049'>49</ref>
</p>

<p>
Machiavelli, Niccolò, <ref target='Pg026'>26</ref>
</p>

<p>
<q>machine state,</q> <ref target='Pg054'>54</ref>
</p>

<p>
MacNair, Harley Farnsworth, <ref target='Pg011'>11</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Malaysia, <ref target='Pg186'>186</ref>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-Manchu'/>
Manchu (Ch'ing) dynasty, <ref target='Pg022'>22</ref>, <ref target='Pg043'>43</ref>, <ref target='Pg044'>44</ref>n., <ref target='Pg047'>47</ref>, <ref target='Pg058'>58</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg096'>96</ref>, <ref target='Pg111'>111</ref>, <ref target='Pg119'>119</ref>, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>, <ref target='Pg159'>159</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg167'>167</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg172'>172</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg182'>182</ref>, <ref target='Pg190'>190</ref>, <ref target='Pg227'>227</ref>
</p>

<p>
<q>Manchukuo</q> (<q>Manchoukuo</q>), <ref target='Pg071'>71</ref>
</p>

<p>
Manchuria, <ref target='Pg002'>2</ref>, <ref target='Pg051'>51</ref>, <ref target='Pg201'>201</ref>, <ref target='Pg205'>205</ref>, <ref target='Pg260'>260</ref>
</p>

<p>
Mandarins, <ref target='Pg104'>104</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Manifesto</hi> of the first Party congress, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>
</p>

<p>
Mannheim, Karl, <ref target='Pg018'>18</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Marx, Karl, <ref target='Pg072'>72</ref>n., <ref target='Pg163'>163</ref>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-Marxian'/>
Marxian philosophy, <ref target='Pg014'>14</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg052'>52</ref>, <ref target='Pg055'>55</ref>, <ref target='Pg070'>70</ref>, <ref target='Pg072'>72</ref>, <ref target='Pg081'>81</ref>n., <ref target='Pg106'>106</ref>, <ref target='Pg125'>125</ref>, <ref target='Pg134'>134</ref>n., <ref target='Pg137'>137</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg144'>144</ref>, <ref target='Pg192'>192</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg209'>209</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg236'>236</ref>, <ref target='Pg257'>257</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
Marxism-Leninism, <ref target='Pg081'>81</ref>, <ref target='Pg136'>136</ref>, <ref target='Pg182'>182</ref>, <ref target='Pg189'>189</ref>, <ref target='Pg192'>192</ref>ff.
</p>

<pb n='277'/><anchor id='Pg277'/>

<p>
Mayers, William Frederick, <ref target='Pg045'>45</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Meiji Emperor, the, <ref target='Pg082'>82</ref>, <ref target='Pg131'>131</ref>
</p>

<p>
Mencius (Mêng Tzŭ), <ref target='Pg076'>76</ref>, <ref target='Pg093'>93</ref>, <ref target='Pg097'>97</ref>
</p>

<p>
Miao tribes, <ref target='Pg168'>168</ref>
</p>

<p>
Mill, John Stuart, <ref target='Pg098'>98</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Millar, John, <ref target='Pg098'>98</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min</foreign>, <ref target='Pg217'>217</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min ch'üan</foreign>, <ref target='Pg099'>99</ref>, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>n., <ref target='Pg209'>209</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Min Ch'üan Ts'u Pu</hi> (see <hi rend='italic'>The Primer of Democracy</hi>)
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min shêng</foreign>, <ref target='Pg012'>12</ref>, <ref target='Pg101'>101</ref>, <ref target='Pg121'>121</ref>, <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg141'>141</ref>, <ref target='Pg180'>180</ref>, <ref target='Pg193'>193</ref>, <ref target='Pg236'>236</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>min tsu</foreign>, <ref target='Pg036'>36</ref>, <ref target='Pg099'>99</ref>, <ref target='Pg120'>120</ref>
</p>

<p>
Ming dynasty, <ref target='Pg096'>96</ref>, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>
</p>

<p>
Ming T'ai Tsung, the Emperor, <ref target='Pg124'>124</ref>
</p>

<p>
Mo Ti, <ref target='Pg093'>93</ref>
</p>

<p>
Mohammedans, <ref target='Pg190'>190</ref>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-Mongol'/>
Mongol (Yüan) dynasty, <ref target='Pg047'>47</ref>
</p>

<p>
Mongolia, <ref target='Pg002'>2</ref>, <ref target='Pg087'>87</ref>, <ref target='Pg190'>190</ref>
</p>

<p>
Montesquieu, Charles de S., Baron, <ref target='Pg112'>112</ref>, <ref target='Pg221'>221</ref>
</p>

<p>
Mussolini, Benito, <ref target='Pg056'>56</ref>
</p>

<p>
National Government of China, The, <ref target='Pg003'>3</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>nêng</foreign>, <ref target='Pg107'>107</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg141'>141</ref>, <ref target='Pg218'>218</ref>
</p>

<p>
New Deal, the, <ref target='Pg238'>238</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
New Life Movement, the, <ref target='Pg102'>102</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-Outline-Reconstruction'/>
<hi rend='italic'>Outline of National Reconstruction, The</hi>, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>pa tao</foreign>, <ref target='Pg071'>71</ref>, <ref target='Pg200'>200</ref>
</p>

<p>
Pan-Asia, <ref target='Pg197'>197</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
Pareto, Vilfredo, <ref target='Pg015'>15</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
Peffer, Nathaniel, <ref target='Pg010'>10</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Peru, <ref target='Pg165'>165</ref>
</p>

<p>
Philippines, <ref target='Pg186'>186</ref>, <ref target='Pg187'>187</ref>n., <ref target='Pg200'>200</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Philosophy of Sun Wên, The</hi> (see <ref target='Index-Sun-Wen'><hi rend='italic'>Sun Wên Hsüeh Shê</hi></ref>)
</p>

<p>
Piatiletka (The Five-Year Plan), <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>, <ref target='Pg238'>238</ref>n., <ref target='Pg246'>246</ref>
</p>

<p>
Plato, <ref target='Pg079'>79</ref>
</p>

<p>
Poland, <ref target='Pg168'>168</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Political Testament, The</hi>, <ref target='Pg002'>2</ref>
</p>

<p>
Ponce, Mariano, <ref target='Pg097'>97</ref>
</p>

<p>
Portuguese, the, <ref target='Pg049'>49</ref>
</p>

<p>
Presidency of ancient states, the, <ref target='Pg028'>28</ref>
</p>

<p>
Price, Frank W., <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Primer of Democracy, The</hi>, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-Program-Reconstruction'/>
<hi rend='italic'>Program of National Reconstruction, The</hi>, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>pu chih pu chou</foreign>, the, <ref target='Pg105'>105</ref>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-Pu-Yi'/>
P'u Yi, <ref target='Pg119'>119</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Radcliffe-Brown, A. R., <ref target='Pg091'>91</ref>
</p>

<p>
Rea, George Bronson, <ref target='Pg183'>183</ref>
</p>

<p>
Reichwein, Adolf, <ref target='Pg050'>50</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Republic, The</hi>, <ref target='Pg079'>79</ref>
</p>

<p>
Rome, <ref target='Pg215'>215</ref>
</p>

<p>
Roy, Manabendra Nath, <ref target='Pg052'>52</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-Russians'/>
Russians (<hi rend='italic'>see also</hi> <ref target='Index-Soviet-Union'>Soviet Union</ref>), <ref target='Pg049'>49</ref>, <ref target='Pg051'>51</ref>, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>, <ref target='Pg103'>103</ref>n., <ref target='Pg137'>137</ref>, <ref target='Pg194'>194</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg240'>240</ref>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-San-Min'/>
<hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi>, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
Sharman, Lyon, <ref target='Pg001'>1</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Sheean, Vincent, <ref target='Pg161'>161</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>shen ch'üan</foreign>, <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Shih Yeh Chi Hua</hi>, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>
</p>

<p>
Shryock, John K., <ref target='Pg036'>36</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Shun, the Emperor, <ref target='Pg097'>97</ref>, <ref target='Pg168'>168</ref>
</p>

<p>
Siam, <ref target='Pg187'>187</ref>
</p>

<p>
Smith, Adam, <ref target='Pg237'>237</ref>
</p>

<p>
Smith, Arthur, <ref target='Pg040'>40</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
South Manchuria Railway, The, <ref target='Pg179'>179</ref>
</p>

<p>
Soviets in China, <ref target='Pg002'>2</ref>, <ref target='Pg212'>212</ref>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-Soviet-Union'/>
Soviet Union (U. S. S. R.), <ref target='Pg064'>64</ref>, <ref target='Pg147'>147</ref>, <ref target='Pg155'>155</ref>n., <ref target='Pg184'>184</ref>ff., <ref target='Pg189'>189</ref>, <ref target='Pg199'>199</ref>, <ref target='Pg201'>201</ref>
</p>

<p>
Spring and Autumn Period, <ref target='Pg027'>27</ref>
</p>

<p>
Stalin, Joseph, <ref target='Pg056'>56</ref>, <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Starr, Frederick, <ref target='Pg023'>23</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Stoddard, Lothrop, <ref target='Pg197'>197</ref>
</p>

<p>
Sun-Joffe Manifesto, The, <ref target='Pg064'>64</ref>
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-Sun-Wen'/>
<hi rend='italic'>Sun Wên Hsüeh Shê</hi>, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>
</p>

<p>
Sun Yat-sen, Mme. (née Soong Ching-ling), <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>n., <ref target='Pg158'>158</ref>n., <ref target='Pg159'>159</ref>n., <ref target='Pg253'>253</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Sung Chiao-jên, <ref target='Pg138'>138</ref>
</p>

<p>
Sung dynasty, <ref target='Pg058'>58</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ta chia</foreign>, <ref target='Pg141'>141</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>ta t'ung</foreign>, <ref target='Pg120'>120</ref>, <ref target='Pg210'>210</ref>, <ref target='Pg261'>261</ref>
</p>

<pb n='278'/><anchor id='Pg278'/>

<p>
Tagore, Sir Rabindranath, <ref target='Pg132'>132</ref>, <ref target='Pg156'>156</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Tai Chi-tao, <ref target='Pg069'>69</ref>
</p>

<p>
Tai-p'ing Rebellion, the, <ref target='Pg050'>50</ref>, <ref target='Pg058'>58</ref>, <ref target='Pg172'>172</ref>
</p>

<p>
Taiwan (Formosa), <ref target='Pg044'>44</ref>n., <ref target='Pg051'>51</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
T'ang Liang-li (T'ang Leang-li), <ref target='Pg005'>5</ref>n., <ref target='Pg056'>56</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>tang pu</foreign>, <ref target='Pg164'>164</ref>
</p>

<p>
Taoism, <ref target='Pg025'>25</ref>
</p>

<p>
Tao Kuang, the Emperor, <ref target='Pg243'>243</ref>
</p>

<p>
Tawney, R. H., <ref target='Pg045'>45</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>têh</foreign> (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>tê</foreign>), <ref target='Pg031'>31</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
Thomas, Elbert Duncan, <ref target='Pg025'>25</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Tibet, <ref target='Pg002'>2</ref>, <ref target='Pg190'>190</ref>
</p>

<p>
Triad Society, the, <ref target='Pg041'>41</ref>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Triple Demism, The</hi> (see <ref target='Index-San-Min'><hi rend='italic'>San Min Chu I</hi></ref>)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Ts'an Yi Yüan</hi>, the, <ref target='Pg228'>228</ref>
</p>

<p>
Tsao Kun, <ref target='Pg119'>119</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Tsiang Kuen, <ref target='Pg236'>236</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Tsinanfu, <ref target='Pg205'>205</ref>
</p>

<p>
Tsui Shu-chin <ref target='Pg010'>10</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Tsung Li</hi>, <ref target='Pg162'>162</ref>
</p>

<p>
Tung Meng Hui, <ref target='Pg136'>136</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
Turkey, <ref target='Pg199'>199</ref>, <ref target='Pg201'>201</ref>
</p>

<p>
Tyau, Minch'ien T. Z., <ref target='Pg005'>5</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<anchor id='Index-United-States'/>
United States of America, The, <ref target='Pg079'>79</ref>, <ref target='Pg097'>97</ref>, <ref target='Pg112'>112</ref>, <ref target='Pg130'>130</ref>, <ref target='Pg187'>187</ref>n., <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>, <ref target='Pg199'>199</ref>, <ref target='Pg205'>205</ref>
</p>

<p>
Versailles Conference, the, <ref target='Pg190'>190</ref>
</p>

<p>
Vilenskii (Sibiriakov), V., <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Vinacke, Harold Monk, <ref target='Pg227'>227</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Vladislavich, <ref target='Pg243'>243</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wang An-shih, <ref target='Pg058'>58</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wang Ch'ing-wei, <ref target='Pg005'>5</ref>, <ref target='Pg164'>164</ref>, <ref target='Pg206'>206</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wang Mang, <ref target='Pg058'>58</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>wang tao</foreign>, <ref target='Pg071'>71</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wang Yang-ming, <ref target='Pg080'>80</ref>n., <ref target='Pg084'>84</ref>
</p>

<p>
Warring States, the Age of, <ref target='Pg027'>27</ref>
</p>

<p>
Washington Conference, the, <ref target='Pg188'>188</ref>
</p>

<p>
Weale, Putnam (B. L. Simpson), <ref target='Pg050'>50</ref>, <ref target='Pg225'>225</ref>
</p>

<p>
Weber, Max, <ref target='Pg015'>15</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wei Yung, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Wên Wang, the, <ref target='Pg168'>168</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wieger, Leon, <ref target='Pg032'>32</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Wilhelm, Richard, <ref target='Pg023'>23</ref>n., <ref target='Pg068'>68</ref>
</p>

<p>
William, Maurice, <ref target='Pg010'>10</ref>, <ref target='Pg072'>72</ref>, <ref target='Pg142'>142</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
Williams, S. Wells, <ref target='Pg044'>44</ref>, <ref target='Pg122'>122</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Wilson, Woodrow, <ref target='Pg006'>6</ref>, <ref target='Pg190'>190</ref>
</p>

<p>
Wittfogel, Karl, <ref target='Pg004'>4</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Wou Saofong, <ref target='Pg111'>111</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Wu Pei-fu, <ref target='Pg222'>222</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
Yangtze river (the <hi rend='italic'>Ch'ang Chiang</hi>), <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>
</p>

<p>
Yao, the Emperor, <ref target='Pg076'>76</ref>, <ref target='Pg097'>97</ref>, <ref target='Pg219'>219</ref>, <ref target='Pg233'>233</ref>
</p>

<p>
Yellow river (the <hi rend='italic'>Huang Ho</hi>), <ref target='Pg100'>100</ref>
</p>

<p>
Yen Shing Kung, the, <ref target='Pg044'>44</ref>n.
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>yi</foreign> (<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>i</foreign>), <ref target='Pg031'>31</ref>ff.
</p>

<p>
Yoshemitsu, the Ashikaga Shogun, <ref target='Pg183'>183</ref>
</p>

<p>
Yuan, the Five, <ref target='Pg224'>224</ref>
</p>

<p>
Yüan dynasty (<hi rend='italic'>see</hi> <ref target='Index-Mongol'>Mongol dynasty</ref>)
</p>

<p>
Yüan Shih-k'ai, <ref target='Pg159'>159</ref>, <ref target='Pg166'>166</ref>, <ref target='Pg173'>173</ref>, <ref target='Pg183'>183</ref>, <ref target='Pg220'>220</ref>, <ref target='Pg251'>251</ref>
</p>

<p>
<foreign lang='zh' rend='italic'>yüeh</foreign>, <ref target='Pg091'>91</ref>ff.
</p>

</div>

</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div id="footnotes">
    <index index="toc" />
    <index index="pdf" />
    <head>Footnotes</head>
    <divGen type="footnotes"/>
  </div>
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
